Visual Analysis of Topic Competition on Social MediaPanpan Xu, Yingcai Wu, Member, IEEE, Enxun Wei, Tai-Quan Peng,Shixia Liu, Senior Member, IEEE, Jonathan J. H. Zhu, and Huamin Qu, Member, IEEE6/5/2012	6/12/2012	6/19/2012	6/26/2012	7/3/2012	7/10/2012
preparedness
georgeloans
disasterschool     las
epa      surprise    police  axelrod    studentsgreen     cops  pres  aides  feared
DEFENSE.INTERNATIONAL.ISSUESpresident      naturally      government
gop
presserloan  firefighters
aide    campvideo  house
keystone     dependence   pipelinefund       jobs   dependency life   farmers
ECONOMY
solyndra
kills      carerights     pushes
energycops
coal   talksrecord   college
LAW.SOCIAL.RELATIONS
spillgulf     julia
epa
stamp  firemenpolice
attack      care   teachers press    hits
teachers
hire     season
college
plan     oil
food   job
firemen     energy   student  visits    congress
aidcut        green
firefighters fewer
firewar
HORSE.RACE
dir
team     visit   health   conference
car
gov      gas
van       spies
conspiracy     policemen    plan     dems
birth       nanny   socialism  loans   video
cut            hurricane     cnn
pres
cspanwj   setting  promotes
solyndra    student
openly
ELECTION.GENERAL
WELFARE.SOCIETY
control      disaster      cares
Media Grassroots Politicial figuresFig. 1. The grassroots and the media played the major roles in recruiting public attention to the topic welfare / society on Twitter. The trending keywords related to the topic were not the same at different times. Around June 5th, there was a trending discussion on solyndra, while around June 12th, the keywords “teachers” and “firefighters” gained more significance. The sparklines underlying the keywords have their peaks on the selected time interval, indicating potential correlation between those topics to the recruitment effects observed. The tweets containing the keywords can also be examined to find the actual events that trigger the discussions.Abstract—How do various topics compete for public attention when they are spreading on social media? What roles do opinion leaders play in the rise and fall of competitiveness of various topics? In this study, we propose an expanded topic competition model to characterize the competition for public attention on multiple topics promoted by various opinion leaders on social media. To allow an intuitive understanding of the estimated measures, we present a timeline visualization through a metaphoric interpretation of the results. The visual design features both topical and social aspects of the information diffusion process by compositing ThemeRiver with storyline style visualization. ThemeRiver shows the increase and decrease of competitiveness of each topic. Opinion leaders are drawn as threads that converge or diverge with regard to their roles in influencing the public agenda change over time. To validate the effectiveness of the visual analysis techniques, we report the insights gained on two collections of Tweets: the 2012 United States presidential election and the Occupy Wall Street movement.Index Terms—Social media visuaization, topic competition, information diffusion, information propagation, agenda-setting		
1    INTRODUCTIONAs an influential theory in mass communication research, agenda- setting asserts that the emphasis of certain topics (issues) in news media determines their saliency as perceived by the general public [28]. In other words, by telling people what to think about, news media influences the salience of topics on the public agenda. Nowadays, news media are not the only agenda setters in society. The advent of social media, such as Twitter and Facebook, has empowered ordinary users to influence media emphasis and the perceived saliency of certain topics among the general public. Social media users can generate voluminous• Panpan Xu and Huamin Qu are with Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. E-mail: {pxu, huamin}@cse.ust.hk.• Yingcai Wu and Shixia Liu are with Microsoft Research Asia. Y. Wu is the correspondence author. E-mail: {yingcai.wu, shixia.liu}@microsoft.com.• Enxun Wei is with Shanghai Jiao Tong University. E-mail: weienxun@gmail.com.• Tai-Quan Peng is with Nanyang Technological University. E-mail: winsonpeng@gmail.com.• Jonathan J.H. Zhu is with City University of Hong Kong. E-mail: j.zhu@cityu.edu.hk.Manuscript received 31 March 2013; accepted 1 August 2013; posted online13 October 2013; mailed on 4 October 2013.For information on obtaining reprints of this article, please send e-mail to: tvcg@computer.org.
information and disseminate them to a huge number of people, thus having the opportunity to influence the saliency of a topic on the public agenda. Almost 90% of public relations practitioners believe that social media has become a new form of media to set the public agenda [47].  The Egyptian Revolution of 2011 is an example of how Twitter users employed social media to establish the agenda of the news media and the public. When the revolution started, Americans paid little attention to the event. To seek support, revolution leaders started promoting topics, such as “#jan25”, on Twitter, which spread quickly and attracted the attention of the mass media. United States (US) President Barack Obama subsequently showed his support to the revolution through a speech, which significantly increased media attention on the event. Ultimately, the Egyptian Revolution became popular news worldwide and salient on the public agenda.  The rapid development of social media does not only provide new opportunities, but also poses challenges in agenda-setting. The abun- dance of information available on social media exceeds the limited carrying capacity of the public agenda [45, 50]. As such,topics have to compete for the scarce public attention [50]. The saliency of topics is directly influenced by the simultaneously available competing top- ics [4, 48]. The more competing topics on social media, the less salient an individual topic is likely to be.  Moreover, prior research reveals that most people on social media acquire information from a group of elite users (i.e., opinion leaders), based on the two-step flow of communication theory [17, 49]. Opinion
1077-2626/13/$31.00 © 2013 IEEE	Published by the IEEE Computer Society

leaders act as intermediate layers through which information is filtered and interpreted based on their own perceptions. They can potentially alter the saliency of a topic as perceived by other users; thus, opinion leaders play a gate-keeping role in the agenda-setting process. The competitive relations among topics and the involvement of opinion leaders complicate the dynamics of agenda-setting, which is rarely addressed in current research.  In the context of agenda-setting on social media, the dynamics of topic competition occur at a larger scale with multiple topics and among different groups of opinion leaders. In particular, multiple types of time-varying relations accompany the agenda-setting process, including the competition among topics and the agenda-setting effect of different groups of opinion leaders on the topics. Dynamic multiple- type relationships compound the difficulties in creating a concise and readable visual representation.  Apart from providing an overview of the evolving relations, seeking explanations for the ebb and flow of the competitiveness of topics, and formulating interpretations for the commonalities and differences among the agenda-setting effects of different opinion leaders are challenging. These tasks require the system to provide a mechanism for investigative analysis, for which the contents of tweets must be made accessible. Currently available systems [41, 8] are limited to a single post or topic. To our knowledge, none of the existing studies has helped analyze agenda-setting and topic competition effects on social media, particularly the roles played by opinion leaders in the dynamics of agenda-setting.  In this study, we propose a visual analysis framework to study agenda-setting and topic competition effects on social media. Unlike previous literature on social media analytics, our approach analyzes the following patterns on social media: (1) the dynamic competition among various topics to gain public attention and (2) the roles that opinion leaders play in the process. We designed a timeline visualization to provide an overview of the competitiveness and saliency of topics over time, the commonalities and differences of the roles played by opinion leaders in the agenda-setting process, and the transition of topical focus of opinion leader groups. Based on the (temporal) correlation patterns revealed in the overview, several hypotheses are formed. Investigative analysis and result validation are supported by word clouds. To illustrate the usefulness of our approach, we applied visual and analytical methods on two collections of tweets: the 2012 U.S. presidential election and the Occupy Wall Street movement. We also interviewed sociologists and provided a summary of their feedback.The contributions of the study presented in this paper include:• An expanded topic competition model of agenda-setting to char- acterize the dynamics of topic competition and the roles played by opinion leaders.• A set of techniques for visualizing the temporal and heteroge- neous relationships identified by the expanded model.• Two case studies to explore the complex dynamics of agenda- setting and topic competition on social media.2 RELATED  WORKSThis section briefly discusses related literature on information diffusion, social media visualization, and temporal data visualization.2.1 Information DiffusionVarious models, such as the linear threshold model and the independent cascade model [13],  have been used to characterize the diffusion of information on social networks.  However, the models view the diffusion of  each topic  to be  independent.    Multiple  topics may influence each other when they are disseminated on social networks. Several  studies  have  also  shown  that  increasing  the  number  of competing topics results in decreasing popularity of the topics [4, 48]. Researchers have only recently studied the diffusion of multiple topics. Myers and Leskovec [31] developed a probabilistic model to reflect the interactions of different topics when they are diffused in the network. Weng et al. [45] proposed a parsimonious agent-based model to examine the relationship between competition and the popularity, diversity, and lifetime of a topic. Our work also studies the problem of characterizing the diffusion of multiple topics. Compared with existing
research, this study models the diffusion process with no assumption about the existence of an underlying network. It also analyzes the competition for the aggregated public attention (i.e., how the opinion leaders set the public agenda), instead of modeling how individual users are affected by the contagions. Moreover, we derive metrics that characterizes the time varying competiveness of temporal salient topics (e.g., economics), different from the related research that models the diffusion of more volatile contagions (i.e., memes). We also identify and evaluate the roles of different groups of opinion leaders in the process of setting the public agenda.2.2 Social Media VisualizationResearchers have developed various visualization methods to help users understand social media data by providing aggregated information [10, 11, 26].Diakopoulos et al. [10] presented a visual analytics tool with multiple linked views to aid journalists and media professionals in analyzing social media content. Marcus et al. [26] developed TwitInfo to automatically detect and display peaks of high tweet activity. Do¨rk et al. [11] introduced a web-based system that can provide a visual summary of large-scale Twitter data streams.  Previous research has also used clustering to reduce data complexity and to facilitate analysis [3, 14]. Gansner et al. [14] described a text stream visualization method that initially groups tweets by “countries” and then generates a dynamic map. ThemeCrowds[3] displays topic trends on Twitter over time using multi-scale tag clouds. Twitter users are clustered hierarchically and then visualized based on the topics they discuss. Recently, several visualizations [41, 1, 2] have been designed to show the spread of information on social media. Nan et al. [8] developed Whisper to visualize the spatio-temporal process of information diffusion on Twitter. Nevertheless, these systems mainly focus on visualizing the diffusion process of a typical event on social media. Visualizing the simultaneous dissemination of multiple events using these systems is extremely difficult, if not impossible. By contrast, our study aims to visualize the dynamics of multiple competing topics.2.3 Temporal Data VisualizationThere have been various approaches for visualizing and analyzing temporal data.  Comprehensive surveys could be found in [21] [29]. Researchers have extended visualization techniques such as parallel coordinate plots for visualizing time variant multivariate data [18] and histograms for time varying data distributions [20]. Time is often represented by the horizontal axis [21, 29], or spirals to highlight the periodical patterns [44]. Aggregation by clustering similar time series has been used to visualize a large number of time series [40]. In this work, we analyze a large volume of tweets, which are semantically rich textual data linked to the temporal dimension. We attempt to unearth the dynamics of agenda-setting and topic competition process from the data by applying time series modeling techniques and visualize the time varying metrics and relations based on the estimated model. We discuss the most related temporal data visualization techniques below. ThemeRiver [16] is the first system to automatically create a smooth stacked graph layout that can handle many time series. The approach has been adopted by NameVoyager [43] to visualize baby name popu- larity. Byron and Wattenberg [7] introduced methods to create aesthet- ically appealing stacked graph layouts using optimization. Recently, researchers have also extended Streamgraph to support visual analysis of large-scale text corpora [9, 11, 24, 38]. Rose et al. [35] introduced “story flow” visualization for tracking the evolution of themes in text streams. Cui et al. [9] introduced TextFlow to show the relationships among topics in text corpora. RankExplorer [37] adds color bars and glyphs to stacked graphs to display changes in item values and their ranking.  EventRiver [25] extracts and visualizes the events within text collections with temporal reference. Outflow [46] applied sankeydiagram to visualize temporal event sequence.  Storyline visualization, as inspired by Munroe’s movie narrative charts [30], can intuitively convey relationships among entities over time. PlotWeaver [33] is a Web-based system that allows users to inter- actively create storylines from scratch. Ogawa and Ma [32] presented a set of design criteria and derived a greedy algorithm to create a layout

that satisfied the criteria. Yuzuru and Ma [39] refined the design criteria and used a genetic algorithm to generate an aesthetically-appealing and legible storyline layout. A different layout algorithm has also been pro- posed by Liu et al. [23]. The storyline style visualization has also been applied in different applications such as genealogical data analysis [19] and community detection [34].  Our timeline method also conveys converging and diverging be- haviors among entities, which is similar with storyline visualization. However, opinion leaders can exert influence on multiple topics at a time interval and their topical focus can shift among multiple topics as time progresses. Therefore, the dynamic relation that can be expressed using storylines needs to be extended in our case.  We subsequently employ a composite visual design that integrates the dynamics of the influences of opinion leaders with the ebb and flow of competitiveness and saliency of topics. The composite style is similar with TextFlow [9] which draws keywords as threads over sankey graphs to depict their co-occurrence in time-varying topic clusters. In our case, the branching and merging of threads on ThemeRiver encode the semantic meaning of topical transition, which is different from that on TextFlow.3 SYSTEM  OVERVIEWThe visual analysis framework is illustrated in Figure 2. The frame- work has three major components: data storage and preprocessing, data analysis, and interactive visualization. The data preprocessing component employs Apache Lucene, a high-performance text search engine 1, to enable text indexing and searching. This search engine library allows the data analysis component to extract time-series data efficiently to model topic competition. It also supports dynamic query as user interacts with the visualization.4 
MODELING TOPIC COMPETITION ON SOCIAL MEDIAIn this section, we introduce background knowledge on agenda-setting theory and briefly describe the original topic competition model applied in the study of mass media [50]. After that, we propose the expanded model with multiple influence sources, such that the effect of different opinion leader groups could be differentiated for the study of the topic competition on social media. Based on the expanded quantitative model, we derive some intuitive measures on the competitiveness of a topic and on the parts that are contributed by each opinion leader group. The resulted measures enable our visualization system to create a comprehensive view of the dynamic competition process.4.1 Agenda-setting and Topic Competition4.1.1 Media vs. Public AgendaAgenda-setting research starts with the definition of two agendas, called media agenda and public agenda, respectively. The former refers to a set of topics that are prominently reported by the mass media whereas the latter refers to a set of topics that are considered important by majority of the public in a society. Agenda-setting research focuses on the causal relationship between the two sets of topic salience. In a seminal study, McCombs and Shaw [28] found a strong correlation between media agenda and public agenda. They call this correlation as an agenda- setting effect, suggesting that the media set the agenda for the public by emphasizing certain topics in news coverage while downplaying others.4.1.2 Topic CompetitionIn agenda-setting, multiple topics have to compete for media coverage and public attention, as the addition of any new topic onto the public agenda comes at the cost of other topic(s) [50]. The competition among
Data Storage and Preprocessing
Data Analysis	Interactive Visualization
the topics is necessarily caused by structural constraints on a wide range of stakeholders, including the limited capacity of the public to process information, the limited space or time of the media to cover news events, and the limited attention or resources of politicians, interest groups, and the entire social system at large to deal with competing topics. Zhu [50] developed a difference equations system (Equation 1) to model two competition mechanisms: 1) recruitment effect for attracting followers of topic j to i and 2) defection effect for distracting followers of i to j.

Return: raw tweets, word frequency
∆pt
kt−1
t−1
kt−1
t−1
Data ﬂow	View linking
i = mi
∑j=1, j/=i
βi j p j     − pi
∑j=1, j/=i
βjimj     , for ∀i ∈ {1,..., k}  (1)
Fig. 2. System overview. The system consists of three major parts: data storage and preprocessing, data analysis, and interactive visualization.  The data analysis component characterizes the dynamic competition of several important topics, such as economy and welfare, based on an expanded competition model. More importantly, this component can quantitatively estimate the influence of an opinion leader group, such as “media” and “politicians”, on each topic for each time interval using the aforementioned model. The topic transition trend of each opinion leader group (that is, the degree of their attention switching from one topic  
In Equation 1, the independent variables include mt−1, the media coverage on topic i at t − 1, and pt−1, the perceived salience of topici by the public at t − 1. The parameters to be estimated are βi j . The dependent variable ∆pt describes the change in the perceived salienceof topic i by the public, as measured by the difference (pt − pt−1)i	ibetween the proportion of the public considering i to be important at two adjacent time points t and t − 1. The change is assumed to be caused by the two competing forces as described by the terms on the right side of Equation 1: the recruitment effect by media coverage of i(i.e., mt−1) on the followers of j (i.e., pt−1) and the defection effect by
to another) is also evaluated by the component for each time interval.
i	jmedia coverage of j (i.e., mt−1
t−1
  The visualization component accepts input from the analysis model, including: (1) the competitiveness of each topic over time, (2) the influence exerted by an opinion leader group on the competitiveness of each topic over time, and (3) the trend of topic transition over time. The data can be regarded as the co-evolutionary relations between topics and opinion leader groups. The component employs a timeline design which overlays  threads,  which  represent  opinion  leaders, on a stacked graph, which represents topics, to intuitively reveal co-evolutionary relations. Analysts can select any time interval from the timeline visualization to perform investigative analysis through details-on-demand. In particular, a radial graph is used to reveal pairwise competition relation among the topics for the selected time interval. A more in-depth investigative analysis of the tweet content is supported by displaying a word cloud within the radial graph.1http://lucene.apache.org/core/                  
j    ) on the followers of i (i.e., pi     ). Thereare k topics and therefore k parallel equations in total. Assuming both media coverage and public perception of the topics are measured along discrete time points, which is usually the case, the parameters βi j and βji can be directly estimated by a standard regression system.  An empirical test of the model with three public topics in the U.S.in 1990-91 shows three possible outcomes of topic competition: one- way attraction, mutual competition, and independent coexistence [50]. Subsequent studies have shown a variety of long-term consequences of topic competition. For example, McCombs and Zhu [27] found that the competition among topics becomes increasingly tough over time, which leads to a faster rate of topic turnover on the public agenda.4.2 Expanded Model: Multiple Influence SourcesThe model as described by Equation 1 assumes homogeneity among the mass media agendas, thus treating them as a whole as they influence

the competition among the topics and consequently the shaping of public agenda. However, in the social media setting, there could be  
As such, sr2 is a conservative measure that denotes the lower bound of the effect size of any independent variable (i.e., mt−1 pt−1). However,
i,g	j
considerable diversity in the agendas of different opinion leaders andin their impact on the public agenda. Therefore, a fine-grained model which differentiates various types of opinion leaders is desirable for the study of agenda-setting and topic competition effect on social media. The original model is thus expanded, where the term mt−1, representing the overall media coverage on topic i at time t − 1, is replaced with terms representing the coverage on the topics of different opinion leader groups (i.e., mt−1 in Equation 2). With the new terms, we could modelthe recruitment effect by opinion leader group g’s coverage on topic i on the followers of j and the defection effect by opinion leader group g’s coverage on topic j on the followers of i. An autoregressive term is
the unique-effect nature makes sr2 to possess two desirable properties: it is additive so that sr2 from multiple equations of an equation system for a given independent variable can be summed to form an overall measure of effect size; and it is normalized so that they are directly comparable within an equation or over all equations of a system.  Measuring the effect of multiple influence sources and topics. Since sr2 as measure for the effect of individual independent variables is additive and comparable, it serves our purpose particularly well, as illustrated with the following procedure to obtain quantitative measures for the competitiveness of each topic and the part that is contributed by each opinion leader group:
also added to account for the carry over effect from the last time point.
For each of the recruitment terms (i.e., mt−1
t−1
i,g  p j     ) in Equation 2,
we can obtain a corresponding piece of sr2, denoted as sr2
. Sum-
pt	t−1
n	kt−1
t−1
k	nt−1
t−1
ming the pieces with the same subscript g (i.e., ∑k
sr2
), we
i = αi pi      + ∑ mi,g
∑    βi, j,g p j     − pi
∑   ( ∑ βj,i,gm j,g )  (2)
j=1, j/=i
i, j,g
g=1
j=1, j/=i
j=1, j/=i  g=1
obtain the competitiveness contributed by opinion leader group g totopic i (i.e., the recruitment effect of opinion leader group g with re-
Figure 3 is a conceptual diagram which illustrates the model by
spect to topic i); summing the pieces with the same subscript i (i.e.,
highlighting the engagement of two opinion leader groups (markedwith different colors) in topic i (i.e., mi,g0  and mi,g1 ) and their effect in
n g=1
kj=1, j/=i
2i, j,g
), we obtain the overall competitiveness for each
drawing public attention away from topic j. The edges between topic i and j correspond to the recruitment effect by opinion leader groups’ engagement in topic i on the followers of topic j, which is reflected in the model as product terms mi,g0 p j and mi,g1 p j . In the original model, mass media is treated as a single agenda setter.
of the k topics; summing the pieces with the same subscript i and j, weobtain the pairwise competitiveness among the topics.  The resulting measures of topic competitiveness provides the empir- ical basis for comparisons, analytically or visually, among the n groups of opinion leaders within each topic over time, or among the k topics across all groups of opinion leaders over time. The measures of com- petitiveness and recruitment effect all characterize the agenda-setting
opinion leader groups
topicspj
mi, g  × p j
process. They describe the mechanism of how the topic agendas of the opinion leaders shape the public agenda by transferring the public attention among the topics, increasing the popularity of some while
mi, g  mi, g
mi, gpi× 
p j
deemphasizing others. We will also use the terms such as “attract”, “influence” to describe recruitment effect in the rest of the paper as they are more intuitive to interpret.5 VISUAL  DESIGN
Fig. 3. Illustration of the model with two groups of opinion leaders’ en-gagement in topic i drawing the attention of the public away from topic j.4.3 Measuring CompetitivenessThe model in Equation 1 and the expanded model in Equation 2 for social media can be estimated by treating the product terms of the independent variables (e.g.  mt−1 pt−1  and mt−1 pt−1) as individual
This section briefly discusses the design process and the concrete design goals , and then describes the interactive visual analysis system.5.1 Design ProcessWe work closely with two domain experts on media study who are also co-authors of this paper. A wide range of decisions crucial for data analysis and modeling, and for the subsequent visual designs are
i	j	i,g	j
independent variables and solving a (consequently) linear regressionsystem. However, it is still needed to derive reliable and intuitively interpretable quantitative measures for the competitiveness of the topics and the recruitment effect that could be attributed to each opinion leader group, such that they could be mapped to visual variables.  Measuring recruitment effects. Conceptually, the competitiveness of topic i refers to the total effect size of the recruitment effects (i.e.,
formulated through frequent exchange of opinions and extensive exper-imentation on both sides. These include the choice of the regression model, the topics and opinion leader groups that are involved in the analysis. The discussions have gradually lead to a concrete project with clearer design goals. An iterative process is also adopted in the design of the system: an initial prototype with synthetic data, and a number of subsequent visual design mockups have been demonstrated
mt−1
t−1
to collaborators to gather feedback.
i,g  p j	) by the opinion leader groups advocating i on the followersof other competing topics. How then will recruitment effects be quanti- tatively measured? The answer is not as straightforward as it appears. It is not because of the lack of relevant parameters from empirical tools (e.g., regression analysis). On the contrary, the difficulty rises from the existence of several measures of effects, each with its strengths and shortcomings, such as unstandardized regression coefficient (b), stan-dardized regression coefficient (β ), squared partial correlation (pr2), and squared semipartial correlation (sr2). Of the parameters, we choose to use sr2 to measure topic competitiveness in the current study because sr2 is the most stringent measure by describing the unique proportion of the variance in the dependent variable (pt in Equation 2) that is solely explained by an independent variable (i.e., mt−1 pt−1  in the contexti,g	jof Equation 2) after removing not only the unique variance explained by competing independent variable (e.g., mt−1 pt−1) for the defection
5.2 Design GoalThe visualization should display the competition for public attention among multiple topics promoted by multiple types of opinion leaders in agenda-setting on social media, based on quantitative measures obtained from the expanded model (Equation 2). The quantitative measures include the time varying competitiveness of each topic, the contribution made by each opinion leader group to the competitiveness of the topics, and the pairwise competition among the topics. The system should also enable in-depth analysis to gain insight into the potential causes of the observed competition effect. We have identified a set of research problems , which are listed as follows:Q1  Which opinion leader groups contribute most to the competitive- ness of a topic?Q2 What are the commonalities and differences among opinion leaders
j,g    i
effect but also the joint variance explained by all independent variablesdue to the multicollinearity among them.
with regard to their time-varying influences on the public agenda?How do their influences converge and diverge over time?
8/28/2012	9/4/2012	9/11/2012	9/18/2012	9/25/2012	10/2/2012	10/9/2012	10/16/2012DEFENSE.INTERNATIONAL.ISSUES
LAW.SOCIAL.RELATIONS
bHORSE.RACE
ECONOMY
ELECTION.GENERAL afloor
nomination        campaigning      donationdebate        johnson      republican      virginia      emptyrecord        dictated     massachusetts     louisiana     minaj
truth
elway            happened            gamebroken           donations           endorses           famblog           chicagowisconsin             supporters         speeches         debating         check             admitswinning         teleprompter         record         deficit         denver         prep
newt
liarhear
florida     join    charlotte   ballot     people
rncmarvelous
libya
cbsnews
peace       reagan
mideast        worldwide
john        polls            spin
WELFARE.SOCIETY
office         grassroots      paul   iowa  august   rerun       termhuge
kerry             lies        death        tonight      video      gop      handouts        real        failuresrace             iowa        nobel        wgnnews      wttw     connewsnow      empty        mark             live
htt             move
president  ron
north     reasons
job              zingers         gdp         npr       wbbm     ohio    wealth     night       abc         day         debater	c
carolina	ryan     photojoe          raised
texasnicki
slamming            clinton        chant        debates    cnn   cbs     pres      jobs        wins        rally
news      day    convention live    elect
losing             attack        ratios
lost        news       leads
team
jobs
ads           notes
tweeters      debate media
wld       barack
proof
speaks    campaign national    access
watch        planpaul            2012time
postpeople      campaign  promises      hell        abcnews
2011          america	watch     gov      fall
bird
voters
win
vote
msnbc        jihad            kill
Media
reelect      time     road   video  gop    washington     win
top             chris
president
bush     cspanwj     won
prize         team
exact
rep          aprilfill
americans     democratic    outraised     stake
air
nbc              jim         florida         virginia       performance       spreads       failed         lie         qaedalady            loss            muslims        victory        presidential      2008        poll        tired        campaigns
LAW.SOCIAL.RELATIONS
Grassroots
ELECTION.GENERAL
clinton         future      govgaryjohnson     talking      closersuccess        fundraising      failure      victory      delegatespaulryanvp        january      janesville        sen
tax            blames            redistribution        america        lehrer        colorado        iran            lolfailure           calls           washington       plain       newsninja2012       campaigningELECTION.GENERAL
Source	Target
Politicial figures
wiped           election           fundraising           libyan           badgovernment            matthews            hundreds
Fig. 4. In Election data, interesting patterns were observed around August 28th and September 4th, which could be related to Republican and Democratic national conventions. Other patterns could also be observed around the time of Presidential debates.
Q3 How do the influence and topical focus of opinion leaders evolve?How do they co-evolve with the competitiveness of the topics?Q4  How do the topics compete with each other pairwisely?Q5 Given the temporal trend in the rise and fall of the competitiveness of the topics, could plausible explanations be formed? For example, is it possible that the occurrence of an event would trigger an increase in the competitiveness of a topic?Q6 For the evolutionary and co-evolutionary patterns discovered, could preliminary hypotheses be formed on the possible causes? The contents of tweets could be analyzed to generate explanatory hypotheses for the patterns, such as the simultaneous influence of multiple opinion leader groups on the same topic, the absence of influence of some opinion leaders, and the transition of interest of the opinion leaders.  The above questions have framed the scope and serve as inspirations for the visual designs. They also pose challenges on the design of effective visual presentations. For example, to enable efficient tempo- ral correlation pattern detection (Q1, Q2, Q3), our collaborators have intended for the related data to be integrated in one view. These data include the time varying competitiveness and saliency of the topics (Q1, Q3), the competitiveness contributed by each group to the topics (Q1, Q2 and Q3), and the transition of topical focus of each opinion leader group (Q3). Although each piece of information can be dis- played separately using existing visualization techniques (such as line chart and ThemeRiver for multiple time series, node-link diagram of direct acyclic graphs (DAG) for topical transition over time), compos- ing them into a single display in a meaningful and readable manner will be difficult. In searching the design space, we should also consider the dynamic relation among different types of entities (i.e., topics and opinion leader groups), as implied by the semantic relations among the temporal data (such as the competitiveness of each topic vs. the competitiveness attributed to each opinion leader group). To formulate explanatory hypotheses for the observed patterns (Q5, Q6), it is also cru- cial to provide a concise visual summary for the contents of the tweets, which can be dynamically queried and compared along temporal, social (i.e., different opinion leader groups) and topical dimensions.5.3 Visual EncodingsIn this section, we describe the visual encoding scheme and how each research question can be explored using the visual designs.
5.3.1   Timeline viewThe timeline visualization provides an intuitive means of integrating the multiple types of temporal data (section 5.2). The theme of the design is to display the co-evolutionary relations between the topics and the opinion leader groups. A composite style is employed: the surge and decline of the competitiveness of the topics and the temporal varying salience are depicted using ThemeRiver, while the opinion leader groups are drawn as threads that are placed at the layers in the ThemeRiver given that they pose influence on the corresponding topic. These threads will switch to different layers as opinion leaders change their topical focus and began to play a major role in recruiting audiences for those topics as they set the public agenda. Figure 4 shows a timeline visualization based on the design.  The threads can appear bundled or separated as the opinion leaders’ roles in influencing the public agenda change over time. The visual design employs the analogy of the diverging and converging behavior of social entities. Bundling of the lines indicates commonality, whereas separation indicates the contrary. The metaphor has been used in numer- ous visual designs, where the behavior can be the affiliation to social communities [34] or its presence in different events [39]. In this case, it is the role that the opinion leaders play in the agenda-setting process.  The composite visual design which integrates various types of tem- poral data will make identifying temporal correlation patterns more efficient than when data are depicted separately [5]. Several patterns can be identified from the visual design, such as: 1) the correlation between the topical transition of one or more opinion leader groups and the in- creasing or decreasing competitiveness of the topics; 2) temporal salient correlation patterns such as the competitiveness of a topic is mostly related to a constant set of opinion leader groups for a long duration; 3) two or more opinion leader groups contribute to the competitiveness of the same topic at a certain time but diverges afterwards (Q1, Q2, Q3). We describe the details of the visual encoding scheme as follows:  Layers in the ThemeRiver Each layer corresponds to a topic that constantly engages the attention of the public. The height of each layer is proportional to the competitiveness of the topic, which is the most important dimension in the analysis. Given that the measure of compet- itiveness is directly comparable in multiple topics, the accumulated height can reveal the overall intensiveness of the competition among them. Color intensity encodes the percentage of public engagement (i.e., saliency of the topic). Topics that engage more public attention will be assigned higher values.

  Line segments During each time interval, a line segment is drawn on the layers if the recruitment effect of an opinion leader group on the corresponding topics (defined in section 4.2) is upon a threshold on adjacent timeframes, thus playing a (relatively stable) role in drawing the attention of the public from other topics as they set the public agenda. The width of the lines is proportional to the competitiveness contributed by each opinion leader group to the topic. Thicker line indicates a more important role. Categorical colors differentiate the opinion leader groups.  Transition lines The transition lines which connect the threads on different layers encode topical transition, which could aid in the expla- nation of the dynamically changing roles that the opinion leaders play in the agenda-setting process.  How to measure the amount of topic transition is one problem that has to be addressed. We use a soft matching approach, inspired by [15] which uses transition matrix to measure the flow of people among evolutionary social communities. Our method estimates the average trend of topical focus transition for a group of people at neighborhood time intervals between every pair of topics. Through the following leastsquares formulation the average transition, described as a k × k matrix (i.e., A in Equation 3), can be estimated:min∑ ωl ||mt−1A − mt ||2l	llk	(3)subject to :  ∑ ai j = 1 and ai j ≥ 0j=1  In equation 3, mt−1 is a vector with values describing the engagement of an opinion leader l in the k topics (i.e., the percentage of tweets posted on each topic) at time t − 1. In matrix A, each entry ai j describes the trend of topic transition (i.e., “permutation”) from topic i to  jbetween adjacent time interval t − 1 and t for a group of opinion leaders. If aii is close to 1, the engagement of the opinion leader group on topic i remains stable. The entries in A are estimated such that the sum ofthe squared error between mt−1A and mt is minimized. ai j should also
view also serves as a widget for exploring tweet contents. A word cloud is displayed as user interacts with the nodes and pie charts to query on multiple facets, including the opinion leader groups, and the topics. The user can seek for the underlying causes for the patterns observed in the timeline view (e.g. topic transition, increase in competitiveness) with the widget. The radial view and the word cloud are displayed on demand as users make selections on the timeline view. Multiple word clouds can be pinned on the display to allow efficient comparison across multiple dimensions thus enabling the user to explore Q5 and Q6.  The size of each word in the word cloud is proportional to the tf- idf (term-frequency inverse-document-frequency) measure [36]. The method takes the raw frequency of the terms in the selected collection of Tweets and down-weight them by the total amount of occurrences of the terms in the documents, thus more unique and salient terms will be given more weight. The temporal dimension is considered by treating the tweets posted in each time range (days or weeks) as a document when computing the idf. Words that only appear during specific time intervals are assigned higher importance. It would make comparative analysis across the temporal dimension easier. To facilitate the analysis of the correlation of keywords to the observed recruitment effects, we draw a sparkline [22] denoting the temporal variation of the keywords’ occurrences for the entire time range under analysis upon user selection.5.4 InteractionsVarious interactive features are provided in the system to support inves- tigative analysis and the exploration of the research questions (Q5,Q6). Detail-on-demand There are multiple levels of detail available to the users.  The word cloud in the radial view gives a summary of the textual contents of the tweets in a selected time range and facilitates the identification of significant topics. In the word cloud, a sparkline denoting the temporal variation of the keywords occurrences will also show up upon user selection.   A list of raw tweet records us also provided to the users such that they can gain contextual understandingfor the keywords in the wordcloud by reading the tweets.Comparative analysis In the radial view, the user could select on
l	l
satisfy the constraints presented in Equation 3 such that the result willbe interpretable. ωl is the weight related to opinion leader l, for which the number of tweets is used in the current implementation.  The transition matrix is estimated for each opinion leader group at adjacent time intervals with a standard linear constrained quadratic programming procedure [6]. The entry ai j denotes the amount of topical focus transition from topic i to topic j for a group of people. If the amount of transition between t − 1 and t is larger than a specified threshold, and in the meanwhile the opinion leader group’s influence on i exists on t − 1 but switch to j on time t, the entry will be drawn such that it could explain the change in the role of the opinion leader group. To encode the values of ai j , we use dashed lines with varying density of dots. The density of the dots is proportional to the strength of the transition. The dotted line still preserves visual continuity while visually diminishes according to the Gestalt principle [42], indicating a more vague relation when the transition does not appear to be evident.5.3.2   Radial view and word cloud
the nodes correspond to the topics and the segments on the pie charts correspond to the opinion leader groups. The word clouds would then provide a visual summary of the textual contents of tweets filtered from the two dimensions. As multiple word clouds can be simultaneously brought forth, side-by-side comparison is possible.6    IMPLEMENTATIONIn this section, we describe the technical details in implementing the components of the visual analysis framework as illustrated in section 3. Data analysis. By submitting keywords and time range queries to the search engine and by recording the number of matches, the time variant saliency of the topics (i.e. mi,g and pi in Equation 2) can beobtained. Given the m and p time series, we perform an ordinary least squares estimation using the vars2 package in R which generates the estimated coefficients (i.e., βi, j,g ) in Equation 2 and the R2, which describes the overall fitness of the model. A stepwise regression is performed thereafter to obtain the effect for each recruitment term
The radial view displays pairwise competition among  topics in a se-
(i.e., sr2
for mi,g p j ), which are aggregated to obtain the measures
lected time interval (Q4). This view extends the graphical notation orig- inally used in the research domain [50] to include additional competing topics. Figure 4(c) shows an example of the radial view displaying pairwise competitiveness. The topics are arranged as nodes on a circle, whereas pairwise competition among the topics is displayed as edges routed within the circle. The width of the edge indicates the strength of interaction. The direction of the color gradient indicates the direction of recruitment effect. The size of each node is proportional to the competitiveness of the corresponding topic. Color intensity encodes the saliency, which is the same in the timeline view for consistency.  Each node also provides information on the competitiveness con- tributed by each opinion leader group in the selected time interval by dis- playing a color-coded pie chart upon user selection. In other words, the pie chart displays the proportion of the competitiveness contributions of different opinion leader groups to the corresponding topic. The radial
on the competitiveness of each topic and the recruitment effect ofeach opinion leader group with respect to the topics. To obtain time varying measures, we use a sliding window with a fixed number of time points. The data for estimating topic transition is also obtained through keyword queries. Given the corresponding recruitment effect of each opinion leader group, and the topic transition trend at each time point, a DAG structure that encodes the varying roles and the topical transition of the opinion leaders is derived, which are then displayed with the timeline view. The word cloud is constructed by fetching information from the search engine upon user interaction.  Timeline view. Two steps are used to create the timeline view: to order the layers and threads and to derive their exact geometry.  To order the layers, we adopt the approach mentioned in the paper [7], which places the layer with the least amount of change (variance in2http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/vars/

C	1A	B	layer 23Fig. 5. The gray rectangle marked out a segment in layer 2. The order of insertion in the greedy scheme will be (A, C, B), as in descending order of the number of transition lines. After the rearrangement, the order of the threads from top to bottom will be (C, B, A).competitiveness) at the center, and gradually add the layers with larger variance from inside out. After fixing the order of the layers, the order of the threads which co-exist in the same layer needs to be decided. Here a simple strategy can be used to reduce the resulted crossings and generate a more aesthetic layout.  The method is illustrated in Figure 5.  Here we define a continuous time interval when multiple threads co-exist in a layer as a segment. Within each segment, the order of the threads is decided with a greedy scheme by adding the threads one-by-one. As the crossings would be caused by the transition lines going to other layers, the threads with more transition lines are added first.  Each time a new thread is added to the ordering, the place of insertion is determined through minimizing the resulted new crossings. After the orderings have been decided, the exact geometry of the layers and the threads can be derived. The baseline (i.e., the bottom of the lowest layer) in the ThemeRiver is computed by minimizing the wiggles [7]. The threads are drawn close to the midpoints of each layer thus they appear bundled when multiple opinion leader groups exertinfluence on the same topics.7 EVALUATIONTo evaluate the effectiveness of the model and to demonstrate the ana- lytical and visualization techniques, we apply them on two data sets re- trieved from Twitter and discuss our findings. We also demonstrated the prototype visualization system to domain experts who are the coauthors of this paper and gathered feedback on the effectiveness of the system.7.1 Data PreparationWe use two Twitter data sets for our study: the 2012 US presidential election and the Occupy Wall Street movement (OWS). Both data sets were obtained by retrieving tweets with related keywords or hashtags such as “election2012” and “occupywallst”. The time duration for retrieving the US election data was from May 01, 2012 to November 20, 2012, which covered the major events related to presidential election. A total of 89,174,308 tweets were obtained for the election data. The OWS data set contained 3,201,119 tweets posted from September 17, 2011 to November 25, 2011.  We worked closely with domain experts to determine the categories of opinion leaders and to identify the most important topics in the two data sets. The opinion leaders were detected through the number of retweets. For the election data set, the 200 most retweeted users, whose tweets accounted for 0.75% of the total tweets, were regarded as the opinion leaders in our study. The opinion leaders were manually clas- sified by collaborating with domain experts into three groups, namely, political figures, media, and grassroots for the comparative study of their influences on the public agenda. Our collaborators also identified six general topics, namely, welfare/society, defense/international issues, economy, election (general), election (horse race), law/social relations considering their relevance to agenda-setting research [27] and to the dataset. Keywords related to the topics were collected through an iterative process which attempted to balance the percentage of tweets related to any of the six topics at different times while maximizing the overall coverage of the tweets. This process is suitable for studying the competition effect among the topics, as suggested by our collaborators. The final set of keywords covered 51.2% of the total tweets (averaged over all the four-hour intervals) with std = 0.08. The saliency of the topics on the public agenda was computed by dividing the number of tweets related to a particular topic by the total number of tweets posted by all users at a certain time. The agenda of each group of opinion leaders was obtained in a similar manner by counting only
Table 1. Evaluation of the model against three common measures in time series data analysis shows that the model is highly effective and robust. The table shows the average and the standard deviation (in parentheses) of the measures when applying a moving window estimation for the 2012 presidential election data.EconomyHorse RaceElection Gen-eralR20.98 (0.01)0.98 (0.01)0.99 (0.00)seyˆ0.02 (0.006)0.02 (0.008)0.02 (0.006)DW - d2.13 (0.18)2.17 (0.18)2.14 (0.16)Defense / In-ternationalLaw  /  SocialRelationsWelfare & So-cietyR20.97 (0.02)0.96 (0.03)0.95 (0.04)seyˆ0.02 (0.006)0.01 (0.008)0.02 (0.012)DW - d2.18 (0.18)2.11 (0.17)2.11 (0.18)the tweets posted by the corresponding opinion leaders. The definition of saliency of the topics has been confirmed by our collaborators.  For the OWS data, we identified three  topics, namely, protest ac- tivity (general), corruption, and income inequality. Then, we collected the keywords by following the same procedure used in the election data. We identified 100 opinion leaders whose number of tweets covered 2% of the total tweets. The opinion leaders were classified into three groups, namely, protest accounts, media and grassroots. The final set of keywords covered 44.8% (average) of the total tweets with std = 0.06.  The data which served as input for estimating the regression system in Equation 2 contained the agenda of the opinion leader groups and the public for each four-hour interval. A moving window estimation was performed, wherein the size of each time window spanned two weeks and contained 84 time points. Estimation was performed by moving the time window for one week for each estimation. The competitiveness of each topic and the influence of the opinion leaders were determined for each estimate.7.2 Model EvaluationWe applied three measures commonly used in time-series analysis to evaluate the extended model using the election data, namely, the overall goodness of fit (R2) of the regression model, the standard error of the estimates (seyˆ), and the presence of autocorrelation in the residuals(Durbin-Watson d[12]). R2 indicates the explanatory power of the model. As shown in Table 1, the mean value of R2, averaged from the 1,241 date points of the time series for the equations of each topic, ranged from 0.95 (on welfare / society) to 0.99 (on election general), thus suggesting that more than 90% of the fluctuations in public attention on the six topics were explained by the model, with only 1% to 5% unaccounted for. seyˆ describes the predictive power of the model. Table 1 shows that the mean value of sey varied in a narrow range within 0.01 to 0.02 on a scale of 0 to 1, thus suggesting that the errors of the predicted dependent variable fall within the narrow range of 2% to 4% at the 95% confidence level. DW-d determined the presence of autocorrelation between adjacent residuals of the model, with d ranging from 0 (perfectly positive autocorrelation) to 4 (perfectly negative au- tocorrelation). Table 1 shows that the d values were all close to 2 (that is, the absence of autocorrelation), thus suggesting that the residuals of the equation system were essentially white noise. The experiment indicates that the model appears to be highly effective and robust.7.3 The 2012 US Presidential ElectionIn the first case study, we analyzed the competition among the topics that were either directly related to the 2012 US presidential election, or those that could trigger much public interest (such as the economy) in the course of the campaign period.  Figure 4 demonstrates a number of interesting patterns identified us- ing the timeline view of the visual analysis system. Several preliminary

explanations could be formed. The timeline visualization indicates that for most of the time, the political figures group played a prominent role in attracting public attention to the topic election (general) in setting the agenda of the discussion on Twitter. During the time interval around August 28 and September 4, the threads are relatively thicker, indicat- ing a stronger recruitment effect. The potential cause for the observed effects was likely to be the occurrence of some important events related to the topic. Therefore, we explored by examining the textual contents
6/26/2012	7/3/2012	7/10/2012	7/17/2012HORSE.RACEtalkexpanding	tpmlivewire
ads
ira            disclosure        february
demands
of the tweets during that time interval posted by the political figures
independents         dysfunction
hill
eating         charlesdharapak
legally
leadjtsthehill       management
outsourcing
health        returns        ride	husband      documentsstark
vote
question        polls      running
president       bill          lying
on the topic election (general) with the word cloud. In the word cloud,
video
key
video    attacks   ceo
wow         alien         campaign	leads      running      ahead
felony
camp     managing       hill
realize
sarah
horse
kristol
decision
responsible         2001
boston       condi
the keyword “convention” was the most salient among all. Hovering
koch        suited         carpick         edge         joe
leading     polls  cookie     tied      prestax
political warfare
lies              interview         2002	release   votershorse        kill      ann	biden   apology
cop
plan       gold     neck    wsj  bain swing   photo     jobs       gop
over the keyword, a sparkline summarizing the temporal variation for
wapo
pure       palin
job
poll cnn
attacks
tells
bit
prove        cnn	retired          timeleave	mate
the occurrence of the keyword “convention” was displayed. It could
mates
aca
michelle
nbc
majority
capital
tiedads
answer	kristol
leadsdocs
aliciacohn
news      ski	gallup     left
holds
lot
feb         role	tpm      abc
be identified that the occurrence of the keyword rose to its peak in the
claims
joneasley
jet    ann kill
lead
fox
race
ahead
naacp
media
fox
changed
jtsthehill
rides
ice
team
pres
listedolympics
poll
1999
tax
joe
muslim
selected time interval (i.e., around September 4th). By examining the
ruling	scotuscone        bill        worseinvented        polling      battleground  tpm
cream        courtwomen        dems
cat
veep         tenure
leftglobe    returns
teampalin
formsrides
stuff         gop
michelle
report
tweets that contains the keyword “convention”, we hypothesized thatthe recruitment effect of the political figures with respect to the topic
yrs             caughtriding
rasmussen      obamacare      strategyoutsourcing       americans     offshoringaliens         voters         coverage         bump         pieceslams
camp         growsinvasionfall
tells        jobs        campaign      questions     papers      falsemanage        changed        retroactively      joneasley        callstpmlivewire         partner         leaving         swing
gallup   
Media Grassroots
election (general) was very likely to be related to the events Republicanand democratic national convention, both took place during that time.
HORSE.RACE
HORSE.RACE
Politicial figures
  During the time interval around October 2, the grassroots started to play a major role in recruiting public attention to the topic election (general) as they set the public agenda. In the meanwhile, it started to affect multiple other topics including economy, welfare/society and defense/international issues, which was very likely to be caused by the presidential debates that took place around that time, when various issues were brought to discussion. In the figure, we could also observe a stronger transition to the topic welfare/society than to defense/international issues as indicated by the two transition lines a and b. We speculated that since the main topic of the first TV debate was on domestic issues, there could be relatively less topic focus transferring to defense/international issues. The figure also depicts the intensive competition among the  topics during the presidential
Fig. 6. A long time of influence exerted by the media on the topic election (horse race), although with very different trending keywords.DEFENSE.INTERNATIONAL.ISSUES ECONOMYLAW.SOCIAL.RELATIONSHORSE.RACE	ELECTION.GENERALWELFARE.SOCIETYolympics         national         mccain         ron
remarks          belong          criminals
records         companies         lashes         buzzfeed         time
watch
supporters         jerusalem         innovative
media
debates.  The grassroots and the media were the two driving forces
solyndra         cut         health         defense       medicare         afghanistan
office        mccain        hhs        education
military
slams         dick
in attracting public attention for multiple  topics.  The radial view c
adviser         money         people       outsourcing     convention       firms         hhsaide       attacks      release    taxes
china         economy         london       bloomberg       michellereadann
invested
bill
media         tells
era               war
live
address
mayor         people       president     aide      attack       rights
african
control
2002
security
free          pick
olympic
war      aides
abor
tion     hands
threat        care        cocaine     campaign  president     college
candidatespent        solyndra      colorado    tax  shooting    israeli
felon
john
in Figure 4 demonstrates that the  topic law/social relations was the
aides
bush       clinton      pres  tax video  gun     boos
storyday
meeting
awwww
returns   pres  control
reasons
day         nytattacks
“victim” of some other topics around September 25.
calls      careful     naacp charge        t
voters
iran	bain
laws       palin
issue        trip        chinavisit
shooting      blacklef        uniforms 
leaksvictims
anglo
calls
gun
oil
speech
law
Figure 6 illustrates another observation. The media exerted a long pe-
support         callnewsteam
welfare   bain  reform
jobs      tpmann      life
oil
billion
vfw        security      video	release   life      gop        buildcare        guns      poll	foreign     issue      week
riod of influence on the topic of election (horse race). However, when
john
voters
poll      felon	1999returns
warns
week         fox
florida        tells
fundraiser
campaign
olympics
47s        event
column          law
booed
speech
guts       military
poland
call
time
tpm
the content of the discussion was displayed, we determined that the
white        watch
gop       felony      colorado      capital      biden
event         lie
cut             reform        press      aurora     violence     policy      taxes      house        racist
Media
florida         arpaio
business
patdollard
israel
cheney         questions
report         medicare      trip      business       visit      nbc         welfare         nyc
cause for the observed recruitment effect was actually different. Around
Grassroots
plan         address         stuff      attack      released         camp         held olympic         abortion         obamacare         repeal         homeland
jobs         saxon         money         announces      buzzfeed         defense         cbshealth        spokeswoman        national        breaking        companies
July 10, a trending discussion on Bain Capital, a company of which can-didate Mitt Romney is a cofounder, was observed. After we examined
Politicial figures
american         return         house         cuts
american          administration          mormon          filceo              mandate         sen
the tweets posted by the media, we found that it was likely related to the news reports on the inconsistency between Mitt Romneys statement on the duration he served the company and what have been filed.  Figure 1 also illustrates different causes for the recruitment effect. From the timeline view, it could be identified that the grassroots and the media played the major roles in recruiting public attention to the topic welfare/society around June 5 and 12.  Although around June 5, the trending discussion was on “solyndra”, while around June 12, the keywords “teachers” and “firefighters” gained more significance.  Figure 7 illustrates how transition lines could hint on the switch in topical focus. It could be observed that the topical focus of the media transfers from multiple other topics to law/social relations around July24. The keyword “gun” became increasingly important. After examin- ing the tweets, we found that this was possibly caused by the Orlando gun shooting event, which raised a lot of discussion on gun laws.7.4 Occupy Wall StreetFigure 8 illustrates a number of findings when we used the system to study the OWS data. We observed that the overall competitiveness of the three topics remained steady during the first two weeks of October, then increased rapidly after October 15, reached its peak around October 22, and gradually decreased. Such results aroused our interest in finding the reason for the sudden increase in overall competitiveness. We used our radial graph and other detailed views to dig deeper into the data, and discovered that numerous tweets referred to the support of President Obama to the protesters, such as “the White House issued a statement saying Obama is working for the interests of the 99%” on
Fig. 7. Transition of topical focus of the media from multiple topics to law/ social relations around July 24th. The keyword “gun” had an increasing importance when the word clouds based on all the tweets posted by the media were compared before and after the transition.October 16. Thus, the support of President Obama could have encour- aged the OWS movement and attracted public attention, which directly led to the increase in the overall competitiveness of all main topics.  We could clearly see that protest accounts played a major role in driving the public attention at all times. We examined the contents posted by the accounts of the protesters (bottom right word cloud in Figure 8), which featured the keywords “photo” and “posted”, indicat- ing the active involvement of these accounts in spreading the news and reporting the most recent protest activities. Another interesting pattern identified from Figure 8 was that “protest accounts” and “grassroots” dominated the discussion at the beginning. After a certain period, particularly after President Obamas statement of support, media groups began to play a more important role in leading the discussion.  Among the three topics, protest activity was the most salient because its corresponding layer in ThemeRiver has the darkest color. At the beginning of October, the grassroots were also quite active in protest activities. After examining the word cloud, we found that the keywords “arrested”, “nypd”, “police”, “brooklyn”, and “bridge” were among the most frequent. We further checked the Tweets and news reports around that period, and found that the observed recruitment effect was related to the arrest of protesters at Brooklyn Bridge on

October 2, which attracted much public interest during that time.
to discover interesting patterns.  The model is capable of extracting structured relation information from massive unstructured tweets,
10/1/2011
10/15/2011
PROTEST_ACTIVITYCORRUPTION
providing analysts with a new method for gleaning insight. Neverthe- less, the modeled information is dynamic and poses an obstacle to the understanding. Our interactive visual analysis technique can convey in- formation in an intuitive manner, mainly through timeline visualization.
INCOME_INEQUALITYProtest accounts
This study mainly analyzes the dynamic relationship between opinion leaders and various topics in the agenda-setting process. However, the
Media
PROTEST_ACTIVITY
kick
photos           occupiers
PROTEST_ACTIVITY
major component of the visual design (that is, the timeline view) canalso be applied to other scenarios when a time-varying relation exists
Grassroot
sprayed      violence     owsbotoccupywallstnyc
protestorsattack          support
occupyoakland
crowdblanketsoccupysf         news
team
zuccotti
solidaritybreaking          tents      gas	chicago       mayor          herman
protestors     cops    arrest    square    city     bus
october       2011
oakland
square     street       stay
feed      cop
union   arrests
park
media
oct
timenational          video       total     city    police  arrests    arrest       justin
social network users and time-evolving communities, wherein each
spray
mass
ows
san
nyc
bitwomen
occupy   protesters   protests
callplaza
word           boston	march	hall       live
user switches their affiliation with the communities.
york     protest   arrested  org   joinpepper
day
scott          nypd	rally           globalflash           day	plaza       foodcops	tear
In our study, six broad topics are extracted from millions of tweets on
lot
live  nypd street  peaceful
signevict
wall
oct
losinjured
  watchvideos
bridge
police
march
nyc
pplreport
pic
rubber
war          avefrancisco
msnbc      brooklyn      wall  videojoins      morgan
chasemace
tonight
angeles             night        join	tonightpeace          camp	tent     bullets
iraq
portion of the topics under the analysis, we measure the saliency of the
ericallenbell
brutality
jail
toronto           people
raid
protester
marchingjeffrae	cont    protesterarresting
strong           peaceful       arrested     park     protesters     riot       grant
topics as a normalized score (i.e., the percentage of public engagement
news    occupywallst   exiledsurfer
vet           call           eviction       occupywallstnyc       marching       actionmorning           washington           attempt           occupation           tomorrow
reporter
support
violent
stands            occupywallst            retweet
those topics).  The normalization of the data structurally determines the agenda-setting process to be a competition process. Therefore, it is
Fig. 8. Exploration of the Occupy Wall Street movement data. The protestaccounts played the major role in recruiting public attention.7.5 Expert ReviewTo evaluate the effectiveness of the visual analysis system, we inter- viewed two domain experts from two universities, A and B, regard- ing agenda-setting research and media theory, respectively. We first explained the visual encoding scheme used in the system and demon- strated its interactive features. We also demonstrated the patterns found in the case study. The initial feedback is summarized as follows.  Visual design. The domain experts were impressed with the visual design. Expert A commented “It is quite powerful and help in my research. The visualization can help reveal the complex, dynamic relationships among topics and opinion leaders visually. The visual representation appears intuitive to me”. He further highlighted the usefulness and intuitiveness of the transition lines for connecting opinion leaders in his analysis. Expert B also appreciated our timeline visualization system and acknowledged its usefulness and effectiveness. He further added “The radial view is easy to understand as it is commonly used in my field to represent the pairwise competition”. He also pointed out that the tweet list will be helpful for in-depth analysis of certain patterns identified from other visualizations.  Interactive features. The interactive features were also well received . They both appreciated using our system. Expert A acknowledged the intuitiveness of the interactions provided by the system. He said “I like interacting with the data and seeing the results immediately. The interactions are very smooth”. He also considered the interactions to be engaging. Expert B particularly liked the feature of generating a radial visualization by clicking any part of the timeline visualization. He also believed that the interactive comparative analysis supported by our system is useful and intuitive.  Improvements. The experts recommended several potential im- provements, including adding more legends and textual explanations to the quantities encoded in the system. They also suggested that the visualization system be released to the public via a Web-based envi- ronment. Expert A commented “While the current system looks nice and comprehensive, it may not fully meet my requirements. I would like to customize the system if possible. For example, I might be only interested in fewer topics and so other topics could be removed from the visualization”. Expert B also highlighted the idea that the system should start simple and hide unnecessary details. He suggested that the system should initially show basic information (such as the com- petitiveness of each topic) with ThemeRiver. The threads representing the opinion leader groups can be displayed upon user request. All suggested improvements were integrated in the current system.8 DISCUSSIONThe  case  studies  demonstrate  the  advantages  of  combining  a quantitative competition model and interactive visualization techniques
quite reasonable for us to focus on the competitive relationship among topics only in our study. Although competition has been a popular framework in the study of information diffusion [4, 45, 48, 50], it is worth noting here that there might be other forms of relationships such as cooperation between topics [31]. To detect other forms of rela- tionships, a feasible direction is to zoom into these six broad topics identified in the study and decompose them into several sub-topics. When more subtle topics included in the study, it is more likely to find different forms of relationships among the topics.In the current study we mainly analyze the competitive relationship. In the future, we plan to extend the model to include other forms of relationships.  Our research on the phenomenon of topic competition in agenda- setting is still in progress. Two weaknesses in this work need to be addressed. First, data is still far from perfect and may lead to biased conclusions. Second, opinion leader groups and topics are defined and provided by our domain experts for both data sets. To apply the model to other data sets, we also need to define topics and opinion leader groups, which is time-consuming and tedious. It is certainly possible to classify the tweets and extract opinion leaders automatically or semi- automatically using data mining approaches. However, automatic tweet classification and opinion leader detection is beyond the focus of this work. We will study this problem and integrate the data mining tech- niques into the current system to automate the data collection process.9 CONCLUSIONThis paper describes a visualization system for facilitating the analysis of the competition effect among multiple topics in agenda-setting on social media. We introduce a model for characterizing the dynamics of topic competition and for estimating the influence of different opinion leaders. The system employs a timeline design which integrates stacked graph and storyline visualizations. The system allows analysts to in- teractively and visually trace and analyze the estimated dynamic rela- tionships among competing topics, as well as the relationships between opinion leaders and the topics over time. A set of detailed views, such as radial graph and word cloud, is provided for in-depth analysis of the pat- tern discovered from timeline visualization. In the future, we will test our models and techniques on more data sets. Our system is currently off-line. An interesting direction will be extending it to support real- time Twitter data streaming. We plan to conduct a formal user study to assess the effectiveness of the visual design and the utility of the system.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSWe would like to thank Professor Lu Wei from Zhejiang University for suggesting the chance of interdisciplinary collaboration, the anonymous reviewers for their valuable and constructive comments, Fangzhao Wu and Hong Zhou for their help. This work is partially supported by a grant from MSRA and RGC GRF 618313.

REFERENCES[1] Project cascade. http://nytlabs.com/projects/cascade. html, Sept. 2011.[2]  Revisit.	http://moritz.stefaner.eu/projects/revisit/, Sept. 2012.[3] D. Archambault, D. Greene, P. Cunningham, and N. Hurley. Theme- Crowds: Multiresolution summaries of twitter usage. In Proceedings of the Workshop on Search and Mining User-generated Contents, pages 1–20, 2011.[4] S. Asur, B. A. Huberman, G. Szabo, and C. Wang. Trends in social media: Persistence and decay. In Proceedings of the International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media, pages 434–437, 2011.[5] M. Q. W. Baldonado, A. Woodruff, and A. Kuchinsky. Guidelines for using multiple views in information visualization. In Proceedings of Advanced Visual Interfaces, pages 110–119, 2000.[6] S. Boyd and L. Vandenberghe. Convex Optimization. Berichte u¨ ber verteilte messysteme. Cambridge University Press, 2004.[7] L. Byron and M. Wattenberg. Stacked graphs - geometry & aesthetics. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 14(6):1245– 1252, 2008.[8] N. Cao, Y.-R. Lin, X. Sun, D. Lazer, S. Liu, and H. Qu. Whisper: Tracing the spatiotemporal process of information diffusion in real time. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 18(12):2649–2658, 2012.[9] W. Cui, S. Liu, L. Tan, C. Shi, Y. Song, Z. Gao, H. Qu, and X. Tong. Textflow: Towards better understanding of evolving topics in text. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 17(12):2412–2421, 2011.[10] N. Diakopoulos, M. Naaman, and F. Kivran-Swaine. Diamonds in the rough: Social media visual analytics for journalistic inquiry. In Proceed- ings of IEEE Symposium on Visual Analytics Science and Technology, pages 115–122, 2010.[11] M. Do¨rk, D. Gruen, C. Williamson, and S. Carpendale. A visual backchan- nel for large-scale events. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Com- puter Graphics, 16(6):1129–1138, 2010.[12] J. Durbin and G. S. Watson. Testing for serial correlation in least squares regression. Biometrika, 37(3/4):409–428, 1950.[13] D. Easley and J. Kleinberg. Networks, Crowds, and Markets: Reasoning About a Highly Connected World, volume 1. Cambridge University Press, 2010.[14] E. R. Gansner, Y. Hu, and S. C. North. Visualizing streaming text data with dynamic graphs and maps. In Proceedings of Graph Drawing, pages 439–450, 2012.[15] M. Gupta, J. Gao, Y. Sun, and J. Han. Integrating community matching and outlier detection for mining evolutionary community outliers. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowl- edgediscovery and data mining, pages 859–867, 2012.[16] S. Havre, E. Hetzler, P. Whitney, and L. Nowell. ThemeRiver: Visualizing thematic changes in large document collections. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 8(1):9–20, 2002.[17] M. Hu, S. Liu, F. Wei, Y. Wu, J. Stasko, and K.-L. Ma. Breaking news on twitter. In ACM CHI, pages 2751–2754, 2012.[18] J. Johansson, P. Ljung, and M. Cooper. Depth cues and density in temporal parallel coordinates. In Proceedings of EuroVis, pages 35–42, 2007.[19] N. W. Kim, S. K. Card, and J. Heer. Tracing genealogical data with timenets. In Proceedings of Advanced Visual Interfaces, pages 241–248, 2010.[20] R. Kosara, F. Bendix, and H. Hauser. Time histograms for large, time- dependent data. In Proceedings of EuroVis, pages 45–54, 2004.[21] S. Laxman and P. Sastry. A survey of temporal data mining. Sadhana, 31(2):173–198, 2006.[22] B. Lee, N. H. Riche, A. K. Karlson, and M. S. T. Carpendale. Sparkclouds: Visualizing trends in tag clouds. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 16(6):1182–1189, 2010.[23] S. Liu, Y. Wu, E. Wei, M. Liu, and Y. Liu. Storyflow: Tracking the evolution of stories. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 19(12), 2013.[24] S. Liu, M. X. Zhou, S. Pan, Y. Song, W. Qian, W. Cai, and X. Lian. Tiara: Interactive, topic-based visual text summarization and analysis. ACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology, 3(2):25:1–25:28, Feb. 2012.[25]  D. Luo, J. Yang, M. Krstajic, W. Ribarsky, and D. A. Keim. EventRiver:
Visually exploring text collections with temporal references. IEEE Trans- actions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 18(1):93–105, 2012.[26] A. Marcus, M. Bernstein, O. Badar, D. Karger, S. Madden, and R. Miller. Twitinfo: aggregating and visualizing microblogs for event exploration. In ACM CHI, pages 227–236, 2011.[27] M. Mccombs and J. Zhu. Capacity, diversity, and volatility of the public agenda: Trends from 1954 to 1994. Public Opinion Quarterly, 59(4):495– 525, 1995.[28] M. E. McCombs and D. L. SHAW. The agenda-setting function of mass media. Public Opinion Quarterly, 36(2):176–187, 1972.[29] W. Muller and H. Schumann. Visualization methods for time-dependent data - an overview. In Proceedings of the Simulation Conference, volume 1, pages 737–745 Vol.1, 2003.[30] R. Munroe. Xkcd #657: Movie narrative charts. http://xkcd.com/ 657, December 2009.[31] S. Myers and J. Leskovec. Clash of the contagions:  Cooperation and competition in information diffusion. In Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Data Mining, pages 539 –548, 2012.[32] M. Ogawa and K.-L. Ma. Software evolution storylines. In Proceedings of the international symposium on Software visualization, pages 35–42, 2010.[33] V. Ogievetsky. Plotweaver. http://ogievetsky.com/ PlotWeaver/.[34] K. Reda, C. Tantipathananandh, A. E. Johnson, J. Leigh, and T. Y. Berger- Wolf. Visualizing the evolution of community structures in dynamic social networks. Computer Graphics Forum, 30(3):1061–1070, 2011.[35] S. Rose, S. Butner, W. Cowley, M. Gregory, and J. Walker. Describing story evolution from dynamic information streams. In Proceedings of IEEE Symposium on Visual Analytics Science and Technology, pages 99–106, 2009.[36] G. Salton, A. Wong, and C. S. Yang. A vector space model for automatic indexing. Commun. ACM, 18(11):613–620, Nov. 1975.[37] C. Shi, W. Cui, S. Liu, P. Xu, W. Chen, and H. Qu. RankExplorer: Visual- ization of ranking changes in large time series data. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 18(12):2669–2678, 2012.[38] L. Shi, F. Wei, S. Liu, L. Tan, X. Lian, and M. X. Zhou. Understanding text corpora with multiple facets. In Proceedings of IEEE Symposium on Visual Analytics Science and Technology, pages 99–106, 2010.[39] Y. Tanahashi and K.-L. Ma. Design considerations for optimizing story- line visualizations. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 18(12):2679–2688, 2012.[40] J. van Wijk and E. Van Selow. Cluster and calendar based visualization of time series data. In Proceedings of IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization, pages 4–9, 140, 1999.[41] F. Vie´gas, M. Wattenberg, J. Hebert, G. Borggaard, A. Cichowlas, J. Fein- berg, J. Orwant, and C. Wren. Google+ ripples: A native visualization of information flow. In Proceedings of the international conference on World Wide Web, pages 1389–1398, 2013.[42] C. Ware. Information Visualization: Perception for Design (Interactive Technologies). Morgan Kaufmann, 1st edition, Feb. 2000.[43] M. Wattenberg and J. Kriss. Designing for social data analysis. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 12(4):549–557, 2006.[44] M. Weber, M. Alexa, and W. Muller. Visualizing time-series on spirals. In Proceedings of IEEE Symposium on Information Visualization, pages 7–13, 2001.[45] L. Weng, a. Flammini, a. Vespignani, and F. Menczer. Competition among memes in a world with limited attention. Scientific reports, 2:335, Jan. 2012.[46] K. Wongsuphasawat and D. Gotz. Exploring flow, factors, and outcomes of temporal event sequences with the outflow visualization. IEEE Transac- tions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 18(12):2659–2668, 2012.[47] D. K. Wright and M. D. Hinson. How blogs and social media are changing public relations and the way it is practiced. Public Relations Journal, 2(2):1–21, 2008.[48] F. Wu and B. A. Huberman. Novelty and collective attention. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 104(45):17599–17601, 2007.[49] S. Wu, J. M. Hofman, W. A. Mason, and D. J. Watts. Who says what to whom on twitter. In Proceedings of the international conference on World Wide Web, pages 705–714, 2011.[50] J. Zhu. Issue competition and attention distraction: A zero-sum theory of agenda-setting. Journalism & Mass Communication Quarterly, 69(4):825– 836, 1992.