Embedding Spatio-Temporal Information into Maps by Route-ZoomingGuodao Sun, Ronghua Liang, Member, IEEE, Huamin Qu, Member, IEEE, and Yingcai Wu, Member, IEEEAbstract—Analysis and exploration of spatio-temporal data such as traffic flow and vehicle trajectories have become important in urban planning and management. In this paper, we present a novel visualization technique called route-zooming that can embed spatio-temporal information into a map seamlessly for occlusion-free visualization of both spatial and temporal data. The proposedtechnique can broaden a selected route in a map by deforming the overall road network. We formulate the problem of route-zooming as a nonlinear least squares optimization problem by defining an energy function that ensures the route is broadened successfully on demand while the distortion caused to the road network is minimized. The spatio-temporal information can then be embedded into the route to reveal both spatial and temporal patterns without occluding the spatial context information. The route-zooming technique is applied in two instantiations including an interactive metro map for city tourism and illustrative maps to highlight information on the broadened roads to prove its applicability. We demonstrate the usability of our spatio-temporal visualization approach with case studies on real traffic flow data. We also study various design choices in our method, including the encoding of the time direction and choices of temporal display, and conduct a comprehensive user study to validate our embedded visualization design.Index Terms—Spatio-temporal visualization, occlusion-free visualization, least-square optimizationÇ
1 INTRODUCTION    HE rapid development and deployment of various sen- sors such GPS devices in taxis in urban cities have been producing an increasing amount of spatio-temporal data. These data usually exhibit spatio-temporal patterns that are valuable for decision making and problem solving in urban transportation, planning, and management [1]. However, given  the  growing  amount  and  complexity  of  the  data, finding meaningful patterns and gaining insights from the spatio-temporal data have been challenging. Proper visual- izations of the spatio-temporal data are an important meansfor uncovering such hidden patterns [2], [3], [4].   In recent years, a number of studies have been conducted to visualize and analyze spatio-temporal data. In general, proposed methods could be characterized into two basic categories, namely, linked views and integrated views. In linked views, map that visualizes spatial attributes of data is placed into one window, and other related information (e.g., temporal displays) into other windows. However, users may experience memory context switching burden when linking these views to discover possible correla- tions [5]. Thus, placing spatio-temporal information near• G. Sun and R. Liang are with the Zhejiang University of Technology, Hang- zhou, Zhejiang, China. E-mail: godoor.sun@gmail.com, rhliang@zjut.edu.cn.• H. Qu is with the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, HongKong. E-mail: huamin@cse.ust.hk.• Y. Wu is with the State Key Lab of CAD & CG, Zhejiang University,Hangzhou, China. E-mail: ycwu@zju.edu.cn.Manuscript received 20 Oct. 2015; revised 31 Jan. 2016; accepted 11 Feb.2016. Date of publication 26 Feb. 2016; date of current version 29 Mar. 2017. Recommended for acceptance by G. Andrienko.For information on obtaining reprints of this article, please send e-mail to: reprints@ieee.org, and reference the Digital Object Identifier below.Digital Object Identifier no. 10.1109/TVCG.2016.2535234
the spatial context is desirable so that users can easily link related information with its spatial context.   In integrated views, maps and spatio-temporal informa- tion are integrated into one display to facilitate the discov- ery of spatio-temporal patterns. To create integrated views, a straightforward way is to stack the information onto the map directly or in the form of 3D, however, it would cause occlusion and visual clutter.   Given that many spatio-temporal information (such as vehicle trajectories and roadside air pollution levels) are often related to roads, it will be desirable to put those infor- mation onto the roads in a map for “in-place” occlusion-free visualization of spatio-temporal patterns while preserving the spatial context. Nevertheless, this process is a daunting challenge because of three major obstacles that should be overcome. First, in order to clearly perceive the information that embedded on narrow roads on a map, the map must be zoomed into a very high. Although the most natural way is to zoom linearly, linear zooming will push much of the spatial context out of the display area. Thus, one need to explore a non-linear zooming method that broadens the roads of interest while preserving the spatial context as well as users’ mental map. Second, if only temporal displays are embedded into roads, encoding the flow direction of time on a road remains unclear since roads are always of arbi- trary direction and temporal displays often involve a time axis. Third, the temporal displays which are suitable for embedding into roads remain unclear.   To address these issues, we present a novel context- preserving visualization technique  called  route-zooming to seamlessly integrate spatio-temporal information maps for  occlusion-free  analysis  of  spatio-temporal  data.  This
1077-2626 © 2016 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.See http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.

method automatically broadens a specified route to display temporal visualizations, thereby allowing in-place, occlu- sion-free visualization of spatio-temporal data. We trans- form the problem of route-zooming to a non-linear least squares optimization problem by defining a proper energy function, which guarantees the selected route is broadened on demand with least distortion to the map.   Embedding temporal displays on roads raises the ques- tion on how to indicate the direction of time flow. We inves- tigate different choices of encoding time direction since a conventional time direction that always points from left to right or from bottom to top is not applicable. We further evaluate the usability of our design based on a controlled user study against a traditional linked view method. Our approach is general and we discuss different kinds of tem- poral displays which are suitable for being overlaid on roads in a map. To the best of our knowledge, this paper is the first comprehensive study on embedding temporal dis- plays into roads in a map. We demonstrate the usefulness and usage of our spatio-temporal visualization with two case studies on real taxi trajectory data.   In our previous work [6], we used an image-based seam carving technique to broaden a route. However, this tech- nique has a severe limitation wherein the roads nearby may also be broadened to various degrees when broadening a route. This situation is significantly noticeable when the routes are usually wiggly or even form a loop. In addition, the technique is slow and cannot enable interactive user experience. In this work, we replace the image-based tech- nique with a novel, robust network deformation technique that could broaden any kind of route effectively and effi- ciently. Furthermore, we introduce two additional applica- tion instantiations including an interactive metro map and a visualization of traffic simulation to demonstrate the applica- bility and usefulness of the new technique. Moreover, we use two compressive case studies to show the effectiveness of our in-place visualization method for spatio-temporal data analysis. The major contributions of our work are as follows:• A novel route-zooming technique that successfully broadens any route with least distortion to the map.• An intuitive visualization that allows in-place, occlu-sion-free  exploration  of  spatio-temporal  patterns with preserved spatial context.• A systematic study of the key design choices such asencoding of time direction and a quantitative and qualitative evaluation of the in-place visualization.2 RELATED WORK2.1 Non-Linear ZoomingThis section reviews and discusses focus+context (mainly non-linear zooming) techniques in visualization and com- puter graphics. The comparison of our method with linear zooming can be found in Section 4.5. Focus+context is a widely used approach to show the focus and context content simultaneously in a single display. Many focus+context tech- niques and systems, such as fisheye view [7], SignalLens [8], point-based map distortion [9], TreeJuxtaposer [10], Live- RAC [11], Chronolenses [12], and Sigma Lenses [13] have been developed to visualize data from different problem domains.  A  handful  of  recent  works  also  applied  focus
+context to maps [14]. Although these techniques achieve the integration of focus regions into surrounding context, they often introduce undesired distortions that make them unsuitable for our analytical tasks. Seam carving [15] is a popular image resizing technique that enlarges or shrinks an image with minimum distortion. Qu et al. [16] used a seam carving technique to broaden a selected route to increase its visibility in a 3D city environment. Our previous work [6] adopted a similar strategy to broaden routes to overlay tem- poral displays. In seam carving a seam is inserted into an image either horizontally or vertically, and thus the seam length is always equal to the width or height of the image. Thus, when broadening a curved or zigzag road, a number of seams have to be inserted in not only the road of interest, but may also other adjacent roads (see Fig. 5). Another limita- tion of the algorithm is its poor time performance, which pre- vents interactive exploration and visualization.   Graph-based deformation techniques [14], [17], [18] deform the road network of a map directly to offer more flexi- ble focus+context visualization. Haunert and Sering [14] enlarged a focus region in a map with the overall road network bounded inside a box. van Dijk and Haunert [17] proposed an efficient algorithm based on [14] to enable a user to interactively enlarge a focus region in a map. Wang and Peng [18] presented a focus+context metro map, where metro stations are repositioned to highlight a focus route. However, these techniques only focus on the translation of a selected route [18] or zooming of a selected region [14], [17] without changing the size of the roads inside the region. These techni- ques cannot be used to broaden a route (route-zooming) for information overlay with least distortion to the overall road network. In this work, we deform the road network of a map directly to allow efficient and robust route-zooming.2.2 Spatio-Temporal DataA recent survey by Andrienko et al. [19] raised the need of finding effective visualizations of temporal dimension in geospatial data. The existing work could be roughly divided into two categories, namely, linked views, where the spatial and temporal aspects of data are displayed in coordinated multiple views, and integrated views, where the temporal information is displayed with geospatial visualization in the same view.   Linked view. Linked-view methods have become standard approaches to display temporal and spatial data [19]. Ivanov et al. [20] used several synchronized views, including a time- line, a map, and a camera view, for efficient monitoring of spatio-temporal data collected through surveillance cameras. Andrienko et al. [21] combined a time graph with a map to visualize multiple trajectories. Guo et al. [22] presented a tra- jectory analytics system with a map view for spatial data and a stacked graph along with a scatter plot for temporal data. Although multiple coordinated views is a powerful visualiza- tion technique, a significant limitation of such methods is the cost of screen real estate to show views side-by-side.   Integrated view. A well-known technique in geographic applications that integrates space and time in the same view is the  famous  space-time  cube  [23].  The  3D  space-time cube presents space as a 2D map and time as the third dimen- sion. However, this approach does not scale well to a large number of samples because of the occlusion problem in 3D
Fig. 1. Our system pipeline for creating an in-place, occlusion-free visualization of spatio-temporal data.
space. Tominski et al. [24] proposed a so-called 2D/3D hybrid display to stack trajectories as bands in the third dimension, whereas time is integrated by appropriate ordering of trajec- tory bands. However, the view will be severely hindered if one wants to visualize trajectories on multiple roads simulta- neously. Liu et al. [25] displayed a circular time axis enclosing a road map to encode both temporal information about trajec- tories and spatial context. However, the design is limited in the number of roads that can be viewed and only works for cyclical time. Methods that directly embed time series curves on top of their spatial locations in two dimensional maps, such as the embedding of ThemeRiver in a map [26], lead to severe occlusion of other useful map information and visual clutter. Abstraction and aggregation methods could also serve the purpose of  integrating  space  and  time.  Crnovrsanin et al. [27] proposed proximity PCA to transform spatial infor- mation into abstract space and plot proximity spatial informa- tion against the time axis. Andrienko and Andrienko [28] discussed possible aggregation methods of movement data. Scheepens et al. [29] presented a density map of traffic data, using color to represent time.   In contrast to the above approaches, our method aims to totally avoid the occlusion problem. It relies on a novel non- linear zooming algorithm to broaden the roads without dis- torting other areas too much and then overlays temporal displays onto the roads.3 SYSTEM OVERVIEWFig. 1 shows the pipeline of our system to create an in-place, occlusion-free visualization of spatio-temporal data. The input map is in GeoJSON format, a widely used format for encoding geographic data structures. We use Java Open- StreetMap Editor to generate the input for our system. The input map is then transformed into a road network repre- sented by a graph data structure. Users can select a route, followed by a road network optimization process that broadens the route with least distortion to the other parts of the road network. Finally, various displays could be over- laid onto the broadened route.   Road network optimization and display overlay are two core parts of the system. In the first part, the route-zooming problem is transformed into a nonlinear least squares opti- mization problem through an energy function based on a set of well-defined optimization constraints. Our system sol- ves the optimization problem efficiently in a linear least squares sense. In the second part, users could interact with the system to overlay various information, such as time series curves, onto the broadened route. This process helps create    a    focus+context    visualization    with    seamless
integration of spatial and temporal data to facilitate various spatio-temporal data analytics tasks.   Our system is designed to support various types of tasks that are commonly performed in spatio-temporal analysis:   T1. Level-of-detail characterization. Identify the trends and variations of attributes over different time periods in a large or local area.   T2. Pattern detection. Locate a specific pattern of attributes in its occurring spatial and temporal positions.   T3. Pattern comparison. Compare the patterns of attribute values across different time intervals and different spatial regions.4 ROAD BROADENING ALGORITHMIn this section, we first describe the limitations of the existing methods for broadening roads, discuss the advantages of our graph-based method, and define the problem of route- zooming as an optimization problem. We then introduce an energy function used for the optimization and present the solution to solve the problem. We finally test our method against the seam carving and linear zooming methods.4.1 Problem DefinitionThe existing seam carving based methods [6], [16] have limi- tations. First, when broadening complex roads (denoted by focus roads), such as curved or zigzag roads, seams are inserted in the roads and other maps either horizontally or vertically. As a result, the context roads or other regions near the focus roads are likely to be distorted to various sizes (see the two results in the middle column of Fig. 5). Thus, the resulting map is often distorted to a large extent, which can mislead users. Second, seam carving performs poorly in route-zooming in a  large map. The algorithm needs to calculate an optimal seam to be inserted into the map iteratively for many times to resize the route, which is a time-consuming process.   To overcome the problems of existing methods, we pro- pose a graph-based method to support effective and effi- cient route zooming. Our method accepts a GeoJSON map as the input data, which could be represented by a graph with a set of nodes and edges. The method allows direct manipulation of the graph, which provides much flexibility to handle complex roads effectively. We define an energy function in a non-linear least squares form that guides manipulation in the following optimization process. Our well-defined energy function ensures that the selected route is broadened successfully whereas the distortion to the whole graph is minimized. Moreover, the optimization problem could be solved in one single step, which improves performance significantly.
respectively.  From  Fig.  2,  it  is  easy  to  compute  that
w	w2sinðaÞ
cos u	w	w2sinðaÞ
sinðuÞ where a indicates
the angle between the focus road and the context road, and u represents the angle of incline of the context road. To broaden the focus road, we define the energy term:8u 2 VF ;v 2 VN ðuÞ;v 2= VF :0	0	2
DFocus ¼ jðxu - xvÞ- ðxu - xvÞ- wxj
(1)
0	0	2
Fig. 2. Illustration of the optimization algorithm for route-zooming. The original road network is outlined in gray contours, whereas the optimized network is denoted by solid green areas. We denote a focus road by f(to be broadened by width w), a context road by c ¼ fu; vg, the boundingbox constraint by Bx and By , the angle of incline of the context road by u, and the angle between the focus road and the context road by a.   To broaden a route by optimization, our main idea is to introduce a constraint to add more drawing space for the focus roads, and a constraint to minimize the distortion to the context roads. We also minimize the bending of all the roads
þ jðyu - yvÞ- ðyu - yvÞ- wyj ;where node u represents the conjunction of focus road f and context road c, and node v is the node on the other side of road c. The equation has deformation terms for both x and y components of the two nodes. Obviously, if DFocus is minimized to 0, then the horizontal and vertical distances between u and v are extended by wx and wy. When applying to multiple roads, the algorithm will iterate each of the focus roads, and create corresponding energy terms.   Context road deformation. To preserve the original overall structure of the road network, context roads should not be scaled. Thus, we define the following deformation energy term for the context roads:8u 2= VF ;v 2 VNðuÞ;v 2= VF : 	1		0	0	2
because bending roads could lead to undesired, irregular results, particularly for metro maps. In addition, the map
DContext ¼ Dist u; v0	0
ðjðxu - xvÞ- ðxu - xvÞj2
(2)
should stay in a bounding box and each node should be close to its original position as much as possible to preserve user’s mental map. We formulate the constraints into different opti- mization energy terms, namely, energy terms with respect to focus road deformation, context road deformation, road bending, and node translation. The energy terms are finally assembled into an energy function. Therefore, the problem of route- zooming is transformed to an optimization problem. The goal of the optimization is to find the new position of each node in the road network with the energy function minimized.4.2 Energy Function for OptimizationA map is often crisscrossed by roads with different styles, which essentially forms a road network. The road network could be formally represented by a connected graph G = (V , E) to preserve its topology, where V is the set of nodes (road junctions) and E is the set of edges (road segments).
þ jðyu - yvÞ- ðyu - yvÞj ÞThis energy term aims to ensure that context road c ¼ fu; vg could be translated because of the deformation of focus roads, but it should not be scaled (see the context roads inFig. 2a). Distðu; vÞ is the Euclidean distance between node uand v. By multiplying 1=Distðu; vÞ, longer roads are less sen-sitive to the scaling and could be slightly scaled.   Road bending. In addition to the constraints for focus and context road deformation, we impose another important constraint on road bending. This constraint is particularly useful when a road network (such as the road map of Lower Manhattan in New York) has a regular, grid-style structure. The deformed road network should still preserve the regu- lar grid-style shape, which could be achieved using the fol- lowing energy term:8u; v 2 V : DBending ¼ jatan2ðy - y ; x - x Þ
Node  u 2 V  has  a  geospatial  position  (xu,  yu)  and  edge
u	v     u
v	(3)
e 2 E is denoted by {u, v} where u; v 2 V . When a route isbroadened to a certain width, each node u of the road net-
- atan2ðyu - yv; xu - xvÞj :The energy term helps preserve the angle of incline (u) of the
work will have a new position x0
and y0 . For simplicity,
context road c ¼ fu; vg after optimization. This energy term
we indicate the roads to be broadened by focus roads, andthe others by context roads. We denote the set of nodes on the focus roads by VF , and the set of neighboring nodes con- nected to node u by VNðuÞ. We detail the definition of each energy term and the energy function as follows.   Focus road deformation. To retain sufficient space for the broadened  focus  roads,  the  context   roads   connecting the focus roads must be shifted outward a certain distance (See Fig. 2). Thus, if a focus road f is broadened to have a
is important, especially our method is applied to metro maps because many of them adopt an octilinear layout to draw metro lines. Therefore, to obtain a deformed but still octilinear metro map, it is necessary to impose such con- straint and even increase the weight of the energy term.   Node translation. To preserve the extent of the road net- work, all nodes should be within a bounding box. Follow- ing [17], we define two energy terms:
0	2
width of w (see the large green road in Fig. 2), the nodes
8u 2 Bx :	DBx ¼ jxu - xuj
(4)
on the context roads connecting the focus roads are movedaway by wx and wy in the horizontal and vertical directions,
8u 2 By :	DBy
¼ jy0  -
yu 2;

where Bx and By represent the areas adjacent to the bound-ary of the map within a certain distance. The distance cutoff is set to 10 percent of the side length of the bounding boxafter some experiments to create appropriate deformed results. Every term constrains the nodes in the Bx (or By) area to be moved only in the vertical direction (or horizontal direction); thus the nodes in areas Bx and By do not move out of the bounding box (see Fig. 2).   To preserve users’ mental map after optimization, we hope the roads, particularly the focus roads, should be close to their original positions as much as possible. Thus, we introduce the following energy term:8u; v 2 VF : DPreferred ¼ jx0  - xuj	2
Fig. 3. Illustration of the process for handling road intersections when broadening a road. The focus road to be broadened is highlighted in green, and the virtual roads added are represented by dash line segments.
The energy term imposes a constraint that the nodes on the focus roads should not be moved far away. The constraints of focus roads deformation and context roads deformation could propagate through the entire road network and help preserve the positions of the nodes on context roads.   We define an energy function using a weighted summa- tion of the aforementioned energy terms to obtain a desired new road network:
In  our  experiments  of  general  maps,  we  set  vf ¼ 1,vc ¼ 1, vs ¼ 0:5, vb ¼ 10, and vp ¼ 0:1.4.4      Techinques for Handling Road Intersection When a focus road is being broadened to a relatively large width, it may intersect with nearby context roads. For exam- ple, in Fig. 3, if focus road f is being broadened continu-ously, it may finally intersect with context road c1, or the displaced context road c2  may intersect with context road
D ¼ vf DFocus þ vcDContext þ vsDBendingþ vbDBx þ vbDBy þ vpDPreferred:4.3	Road Network Optimization
(6)
c3. This situation may lead to undesirable perceptual distor- tion or interference since the topology of the road network is different from the original one.We  address  this  problem  by  inserting  virtual  roads
The energy function defined in Equation (6) is in an obvious non-linear least squares form that can be solved by a typical linear least squares solution. The energy function is an over-determined system, and matrix A and vector b could be con- structed in a linear least squares form (namely, Ax ¼ b). Thenumber of the columns and rows in A correspond to the number of variables and constraints, respectively. b is a sin- gle column vector where the number of rows is equal to the number of constraints. The solution, namely, the outputposition (x0 , y0 ) of the nodes in the optimized map, could
between the focus roads and the intersected context road.When the road broadening is finished, the algorithm will check whether the output road network introduces new road intersection or not. If none of them is found, then the road broadening process is done. Otherwise, virtual roads (see the dashed green lines in Fig. 3) will be inserted into the road network and the road broadening algorithm is performed again to obtain a crossing-free road network. Though inserting a mass of virtual roads will immediately relax this issue, the context roads (e.g., c1  and c3) will be
u	u
be obtained with the following equation:b^ ¼ ðAT AÞ-1AT b;	(7)
moved away too much due to the impact by Focus RoadDeformation, which may further introduce other road inter- section. Using insufficient number of virtual roads may not guarantee a crossing-free result. Thus, we adopt an iterative
where vector b^ stores x0
and y0 . All the constraints imposed
strategy to insert virtual roads. The number of the inserted
are soft constraints; hence, they may be violated to certain degree. Nevertheless, this problem could be handled with carefully specified weights. vf is used to ensure that the focus road is broadened to a specified width. When many roads connect to a long focus road, users could increase vf to ensure the road broadening effect. vc is used to ensure that the deformed road network still preserve the overall structure of the original one. When a road map exists many
virtual roads begins initially with one. If the road broaden- ing process with one virtual road relaxes the issue, then the algorithm is done. If not, the number of inserted virtual roads increases exponentially. The inserted virtual roads will be evenly distributed among intersection roads. In practice, we  find that the road intersections are usually avoided by inserting two or four virtual roads. The pseudo- code of above process is given in Algorithm 1.
dense context roads, one could increase vc  to avoid the	 	
intersection among the deformed context roads. vs is partic- ularly useful for ensuring the regular structure of the road network. For example, when operating with a metro map, vs could be set higher to keep the octilinear structure of the metro map. vb is used to ensure that the deformed maps still preeserve the extent of the road network, and we always set it to a higher value (e.g., 10). vp is preventative parameter and used to ensure the deformed focused roads still hold their original positions approximatively.
 Algorit hm 1. Hand ling Road Interse ction 	Input: A deformed road network, n ¼ 0:5Output: A road network without road intersectionwhile road intersection exists don ¼ n 丰 2insert n virtual roadsrun route-zooming algorithmend while
Fig. 4. Technique comparison with US highway maps and a complex road junction.The focus routes are highlighted in red in the left two figures, the middle two figures are the results created by the seam carving based method, and the right two figures are the ones created by our route-zooming method.
4.5   Technique ComparisonIn this section, we compare our method with a seam carving based method [6], [16]. In the two maps in the left column of Fig. 5, we select two areas from the maps of Hong Kong and London, respectively. A zigzag road and a loop road (highlighted in red) are chosen to be broadened. The results processed by seam carving are shown in the middle column of the figure, whereas the results generated by our method are shown in the right column.   The seam carving based method could successfully broaden the focus roads while minimizing the distortion to the overall structure of the map. However, the context roads connected to the focus roads are also broadened to have var- ious widths (middle column in Fig. 5), which may become a serious issue when a user examines the deformed map and wants to distinguish the focus roads and context roads. With our method, only the selected roads are broadened to a desired width, and the context roads are not broadened so the distraction is avoided.   We further conduct two comparisons with different and complex maps including US highway maps and a complex road junction (see Fig. 4). When broadening a selected focus road, the seam carving based method will also broaden or distort context roads to different extent (middle column in Fig. 4). In addition, when broadening a roundabout roadFig. 5. Comparison of the route-zooming algorithm with the seam carving based method for broadening a focus route highlighted in red.
using seam carving based method, the road will be divided into several road segments with horizontal or vertical direc- tion. Thus, the focus road may be broadened excessively due to retargeting the remaining part of the map image. In some cases, the seams will bypass certain thin context roads, and may result in a map with salient visual difference. With our method, only the focus roads are broadened to a desired width, and structure of the context map is not affected.5 VISUALIZATION  DESIGNAfter the roads are broadened by our route-zooming approach, we can now overlay various information onto the road. Overlaying spatial information is straightforward, one could broaden the road to an appropriate width, and directly put the information onto the place that is near to its geographical position. However, overlaying temporal infor- mation brings some critical challenges, including how to encode the time direction of the displays on the road, and the choices of visualization design. We aimed to address such issues as follows.5.1 Time DirectionEmbedding temporal displays on roads raises the question on how to indicate the direction of time flow. Given that the road on which the time series is overlaid could be of any slope, conventional default encoding where time flows from left to right does not apply. Fig. 6 illustrates various design choices considered in our system.   Default direction. In principle, we can encode time direc- tion based on the Cartesian coordinate system. The time flow direction will be from left to right for horizontal roads and from bottom to top for vertical roads. For roads with other slopes, we can choose a direction based on the angle between the road and the horizontal axis. For example, if the angle between the road and the horizontal axis fallsbetween -45 to 45 degree, then the time direction is fromleft to right; otherwise, the direction is from bottom to top. Although intuitive and natural, the approach is problematic
Fig. 6. Different encoding methods for time direction using  road name (A), text labels (i.e.,date and time) (B), visual symbols (i.e., arrow) (C), and color (D).under special circumstances. For example, a road with a43 degree slope may adopt a left-to-right orientation, whereas a road with a 47 degree slope will adopt a bottom- to-top orientation. Thus, slight changes in the slope can lead to a dramatic flip of time flow direction.   Possible visual cues. For special cases, additional visual cues (e.g., text labels, visual symbols, colors, and anima- tions) are required to indicate time direction. With text labels, we can label the date and time directly alongside the temporal pattern, however, a trade-off will occur between the space taken up by the text and the legibility of the label. There also exists a handful of conventional visual symbols for encoding direction, for example, a time axis with an origin and arrow is the simplest, most non-pervasive, and most natural way to indicate direction. The color channel of the temporal design can be exploited using saturation, opacity, or a sequential color scheme to indicate time direction. Ani- mation can be used to represent the flow orientation of time or to directly animate time-varying data.   Relying on existing map features. Assigning time direction according to the orientation of the text name label of the road presents two obvious advantages. First, our design principle of minimal occlusion or distortion is satisfied because the
TABLE 1Different Schemes for Encoding Time DirectionNameExtra SpaceAmbiguityAccuracyDefaultNoYesMediumText LabelYesNoHighVisual SymbolYesNoHighColorYesYesMediumAnimationNoNoMediumRoad NameNoYesHighdesign relies on existing map features. Second, from the per- spective of users, associating street names orientation with time direction is simple to learn and easy to apply.   Table 1 summarizes and compares different schemes for encoding time direction on a road. All schemes have their advantages and disadvantages. Determining which one to use depends on its application, the familiarity of users with our system, and the space capital available for visualization. In previous work [6], we conducted an user study to com- pare the performance of two time direction encodings, i.e., Visual Symbol  and  Relying  on Existing Map  Features, and found that using additional visual symbol slightly outper- forms the one that only relies on existing map features, and the response accuracy between them are comparable.5.2 Temporal DisplayAnother design choice is to decide which temporal displays are suitable for being overlaid on roads in a map. There is one road characteristic that cannot be changed by broaden- ing: long but narrow. The ratio and limited width are the major constraints for our design choices. First, line charts and its variations (e.g., horizon graph) should have no prob- lem with our scheme. Second, Themeriver can also be used. However, we must ensure that the road is adequately broadened so that each layer is visible to users. Third, the visualization of cyclical temporal patterns (e.g., radial views) can be overlaid on the road but is not easily recog- nized unless the road is broadened to a huge width. How- ever, the radial view (e.g., chord diagram) is suitable for presenting the interchange of traffic flow in the intersections of multiple roads. We demonstrate these embedded tempo- ral displays in Fig. 7a.
Fig. 7. A comparison of three views for spatio-temporal data visualization, namely, embedded view, integrated view, and linked view: (a) various tem- poral displays are overlaid on the broadened roads to achieve occlusion-free visualization; (b) temporal displays on the original, undeformed roads occlude important neighboring context; and (c) temporal displays in separate views lead to a considerable burden of context switching.
Fig. 8. Method instantiations of our route-zooming method for focus+context occlusion-free visualization: (a) a broadened tourist route with highlighted key information (e.g., images of tourist attractions and transfer stations highlighted); (b) a broadened road junction for a clear display of traffic simulation information; (c) a broadened road junction with a density map overlaid for visualization of two-way traffic flow information.
   Figs. 7b and 7c present a comparison of our embedded view with two other views (i.e., integrated view and linked view), respectively. The integrated view cannot  avoid the occlusion problem because the temporal displays are always directly overlaid onto the original roads. The linked view requires users to mentally relate the temporal patterns to specific roads, and this condition may introduce memory context switching burden. Our method addresses both issues through in-place occlusion-free visualization of tem- poral patterns.5.3 User InteractionsApart from basic user interactions in map navigation and data selection, we support an additional of interactions to facilitate our analysis. Together with the temporal displays embedded into the roads, the interaction could largely enhances the capability of the system to address the tasks mentioned in Section 3.   Brushing and filtering. Users can directly brush any road segments on the map, which can be broadened by our route-zooming technique. Users can filter out data of inter- est by using the time interval in the time series curve, and the corresponding segments will be highlighted for all curves on the map. Locating a specific pattern of attributes in its occurring spatial and temporal positions could be well supported by this process.   Overlaying. We support additional overlaying of optional labels, such as date time text labels, time axis, data value axis, traffic direction indicators, and user-specified texts.   Road width control. To find the most appropriate width of a given road, users can select a road and then perform zooming to continuously enlarge or shrink the road. Together with overlaying, users could compare the tempo- ral patterns embedded into the roads more effectively.6 EXPERIMENTSWe present two method instantiations to show the applica- bility of our route-zooming method. Then, we describe two
case studies on real traffic flow data for demonstrating the usability of our spatio-temporal visualization.6.1 Method InstantiationsIn this section, we demonstrate two method instantiations of our route-zooming method including: (1) an interactive, focus+context metro map for city tourism and (2) illustrative maps for highlighting information on the broadened routes.   Many tourists usually prefer to travel by metro especially in a big city. However, large cities generally have fairly complex metro systems that are challenging for travel route planning and navigation. Our method can address this problem by overlaying key travel information on a broad- ened route in metro maps, which usually have special octi- linear layouts, without significantly distorting the overall structure of the map. Fig. 8a shows an interactive, focus+context map visualization for city tourism using a complex metro map in Tokyo, Japan. Whenever a tourist decides which attractions to visit in the city, we can determine a metro route that connects these attractions through various metro lines. The route can then be broadened by our route- zooming method. Each line segment of the broadened route keeps its original metro line color. The double circles encode important transfer stations. The attraction images are also overlaid on the broadened route at the corresponding metro stations. This example demonstrates that the technique is useful for city tourism. It enables tourists to interactively plan their travel route, such that he/she can see the key information (e.g., names of related metro lines and the major attractions) on the broadened route with the neces- sary context information and without any occlusion. It also allows tourists to easily travel in complex metro system because all key information (e.g., transfer stations) are highlighted clearly. It would be much more difficult for travel route planning and navigation in a complex metro system without our route-zooming technique.   Another method instantiation of our technique is for cre- ating a static, illustrative map (e.g., poster) that can intui- tively and clearly convey important information to wide
Fig. 9. A synoptic view of the traffic volume in the West Lake District allows quick detection of interesting patterns and easy comparison between multiple roads.
audience. In this instantiation, user interactions are usually not allowed and important information should be displayed directly without  occluding  other  context  information. Fig. 8b shows that our technique can clearly illustrate a result of traffic simulation around a road junction. The method broadens the connecting roads and places the result on the roads without occluding or distorting context infor- mation. The broadened roads can even afford to display leg- ible street names, which would be challenging without our technique. Our technique can further broaden the road to a larger extent with negligible distortion, so that additional information can be clearly displayed. Fig. 8c presents the same road junction with broader connecting roads to show a density map with two-way traffic flow information. Over- laying this density map with rich information on small, undeformed roads without using our technique can cause occlusion, while resizing the density map to fit small roads can result in illegible chart. Our result in Fig. 8c demon- strates that our technique creates a highly readable chart without the aforementioned problems.   The method instantiations discussed in this section dem- onstrate the applicability and usefulness of our technique in various applications.6.2 Case StudiesIn this section, we demonstrate the usefulness of our spatio- temporal visualization by conducting two case studies on real traffic flow data.6.2.1 Data PreparationWe test our method using the taxi trajectory data that con- tains the trajectories of over 8,000 taxis collected from November 1, 2011 to February 29, 2012, and from October 1, 2012 to October 31, 2013 in Hangzhou, China. The sampling rate is one sample every 20 seconds (on average), and the sampling duration is 24 hours each day. Each GPS record consists of seven fields: (i) ID; (ii) license number; (iii) lati- tude and longitude; (iv) status indicating whether the taxi is occupied or vacant; (v) date and time; (vi) direction; and(vii) speed. We calculate the number of taxis that passed by a road or a region of interest within each time period (e.g., one hour or one day), and then generate a time series curve
representing the traffic flow of that road or region. We use this information in following analytical tasks.6.2.2 Synoptic View of a Large AreaThis case study demonstrates that our method can quickly identify interesting spatio-temporal patterns at the synoptic level. Fig. 9 shows a synoptic view of the West Lake District in Hangzhou with two broadened roads. Each line chart on a broadened road segment encodes the taxi traffic flow of the road for one-week (from Monday to Sunday). Each repeated “wave” in a chart represents the traffic flow in one day. For example, Fig. 9a represents the traffic flow on Tuesday. Each chart has two parts, namely, a green part and a red part. The green part represents the time series curve of traffic flow on right lanes (right side of the direction of the arrow), and the red part represents the left lanes (left side of the direction of the arrow). The synoptic view reveals the overall traffic con- ditions in the district and a user can further pursue interest- ing patterns spotted in the view (T1 and T3).   We find following interesting patterns in the synoptic view. A clear pattern of traffic imbalance is observed by comparing the green and red parts of the line charts (T3). Roads A and B in the figure exhibit a high degree of traffic flow imbalance in two opposite directions. An investigation into the map reveals that roads A and B are both one-way roads. We also observe low degrees of traffic flow imbalance in roads C, D, E, and F, which are all two-way roads. The seamlessly integrated visualization embedding the tempo- ral information into the map clearly shows us that roads C and D, and roads E and F are horizontally connected to roads A and B, respectively. The degree of traffic flow imbalance increases from west to east (i.e., from road D to C to A and from road F to E to B). Therefore, we surmise that the traffic flow imbalance in two-way roads C, D, E, and F are mainly due to the traffic flow imbalance of one-way roads A and B.   The temporal traffic flow patterns (see the line charts) are different for the two road types (T3). The patterns for the two-way roads (C, D, E and F) show that traffic during evening rush hours is heavier than that in the morning, which implies that the turnout rate of the taxis in the even- ing is higher than the one in the morning. In contrast, the patterns for one-way roads (A and B) indicate that traffic
Fig. 10. Temporal pattern at one railway and four coach stations. The embedded view can help us quickly locate the temporal pattern with corresponding stations and surrounding points of interest.
during morning rush hours is close to that in the evening. We surmise that since one-way roads afford higher traffic flow capacity over two-way roads, the taxi drivers typically enter the one-way roads whenever possible until the traffic becomes heavy in the morning and the evening.   This case study demonstrates the major benefit of our visualization that can assist analysts in quickly detecting and analyzing spatio-temporal patterns. If linked views are used to perform similar analysis tasks, then all of the time series must be examined and related to any discovered pat- terns on the map. This is inefficient and challenging because of the burden caused by context switching.6.2.3 Close Inspection of Local RegionsIn this case study, we demonstrate that our method allows users to quickly identify interesting spatio-temporal pat- terns through the examination and comparison of multiple temporal displays in different local regions of interest on the map (T1, T2, and T3). Fig. 10 shows the broadened roads near railway station A and coach stations B, C, D, and E in Hangzhou. The temporal displays of taxi traffic flow near the stations are embedded into the roads. The rise and fall of the orange and blue time series curves represent the var- iations in taxi traffic flow for one week (from Monday to Sunday) in November 2011 and January 2013, respectively. The time granularity is set to one hour. The two curves are placed side by side in each display for a convenient compar- ison, and the arrow indicates the time direction (from Mon- day to Sunday).   The embedded view can quickly connect a temporal pat- tern of the corresponding station to its surrounding POIs (points of interest) (T2). Several noticeable patterns can be
found in Fig. 10. By comparing the taxi traffic flow for each station in two time periods, we can observe an imbalance of taxi traffic flow in several stations. At coach station B, the blue time series curve is much lower than the orange time series curve, which indicates that the taxi traffic flow signifi- cantly decreased from 2011 to 2013. This finding implies that fewer people chose to take a taxi to station B in 2013. With our in-place view, a quick examination of the POIs nearby revealed that there was also a station of Metro Line 1 at this coach station. We further found that the metro line started operating in November 2012. Since then, many peo- ple tended to ride the metro rather than take a taxis to sta- tion B. We surmise that it was because station B is far away from the downtown and people preferred to travel on the metro to save both time and money.   A different temporal pattern is observed at train station A (see Fig. 10), which is also next to a Metro Line 1 station. The taxi traffic flow at this station (blue curve) increased in 2013 compared with the traffic flow (orange curve) in 2011. This may suggest that although more people chose to go to station A by metro after Metro Line 1 opened, the total num- ber of people who traveled by train increased significantly since 2011. Therefore, the taxi traffic flow surrounding train station A still increased to a large degree. We speculate that this was caused by the accelerating development in high- speed rail in recent years, which attracts more and more people to travel by train.   Moreover, we investigated the traffic flow imbalance of other coach stations, namely, stations C, D, and E. The blue curves (2013) are all lower than the orange curves (2011), which further proves that more passengers used the train whereas fewer passengers took a coach since 2011.

However, the decrease in the taxi traffic flow of stations C, D, and E is not as significant as that of station B. A quick examination of the geographic locations of the three stations reveals that they are closer to the downtown than station B. Additionally, no metro station is found near the stations. Therefore, taking taxis to these stations was still popular for those who preferred to travel by coach.   The case study demonstrates that our embedded view is valuable and useful in integrating spatial and temporal information for efficient visual analysis. If a linked view or integrated view is used to explore these patterns, then switching between different views can occur or temporal displays could occlude the POIs.7 USER STUDIESWe evaluate the usability of our design based on a con- trolled user study. The user study is concerned with the per- formance of our method versus a linked view method.7.1 Embedded View versus Linked ViewA fare comparison of our method with other integrated views is difficult. First, obtaining the implementations of some methods is challenging. Second, the design goals are different. Our method aims to completely avoid occlusion that is undesirable for some applications. Thus, we compare our method with a standard linked view scheme (i.e., the map is in one window, while the time series curves are in another window), which also does not introduce occlusion.   Similar to the  user  study  conducted  by  Nekrasovski et al. [30], we evaluate the effectiveness of our design with the linked view by running an experiment to address the following questions: How do the embedded view or the linked view affect task completion time or accuracy? How does the orien- tation of roads in the embedded view or the linked view affect esti- mation time and accuracy?   We hypothesize that the embedded view exhibits faster task completion than the linked view because the temporal information is directly associated with the corresponding spatial context. However, for the roads that are not horizon- tal, we expect longer response times for the embedded view due to the mental reorientation of temporal information. The error rate should be comparable in terms of accuracy.   Method. In each trial, the subjects are provided a picture that shows three selected roads labeled Z, T, and R, respec- tively. The picture either contains three time series curves embedded in the three roads or displays three time series graphs on the right hand side of the map with clear labeling. The subjects are instructed to click on the road with the highest attribute value in a specified date as quickly as pos- sible without compromising accuracy. The maps used in both methods have the same size. In other words, the bounding box that contains the linked view GUI is larger than that of the embedded view.   We test the embedded view and the linked view graphs with horizontal, vertical, or slanted roads in a within-sub- jects scheme. The trials are repeated five times for each con- dition. In generating the graphs for the experiment, we use the same map and dataset for both embedded view and linked view methods. The three roads in each trial have the same orientation. We control the practice effect by asking
Fig. 11. Charts show the mean response time for the user studies with respect to embedded view versus linked view.the subjects to practice as many times as they like for each graph type or road orientation until their performance became stabilized. The correct answers are provided for practice trials but not for test trials. We recruit 12 unpaid postgraduate students (six male, six female) with engineer- ing majors. Three of the subjects use time series curves fre- quently, two have seen time series curves from time to time, and the rest have rarely used them.   Result and discussion. Fig. 11 presents the statistics for the study. Overall, the average response time is 3.03 seconds (SD= 0.84) for the embedded view and 4.37 seconds (SD = 1.11) for the linked  view. We  conducted a  three  Orientations(Horizontal, Vertical, Slanted) × two Techniques (LinkedView, Embedded View) RM-ANOVA to analyze the response time data. Our analysis reveals a significant effect on the response time for both Techniques (F(1,11) = 11.598, p  <  0.01)  and  Orientations  (F(2,22)  =  4.531,  p  <  0.05).However, a significant interaction for Techniques × Orienta-tions is not observed. Pair-wise comparisons of Orientations show a significant difference between Horizontal roads and Slanted roads (p < 0.01); the other pairs do not have signifi- cant differences. The results confirm our hypothesis of the effects of different methods or orientations on response time. As for response accuracy, the overall average is 98.8 percent for the linked view and 99.4 percent for the embedded view.   In addition, when the users finished the experiments, we asked the users to rate the performance when experiencing Embedded View or Linked View with respect to two ques- tions: (Q1: can Embedded View help improve the perfor- mance of finding a specific traffic flow in different roads, or Q2: can Linked View help improve the performance of find- ing a specific traffic flow in different roads). Typical five- level Likert items are employed: Strongly agree (5), Agree (4), Neutral (3), Disagree (2), and Strongly disagree (1). Analysis of the results reveals that the average score of Q1 and Q2 are 4.83 (SD=0.38) and 2.18 (SD=0.87). Regarding Q1, all of the users report with Strongly Agree (10 users) or Agree (2 users); Regarding Q2, only one user report with Agree, and 66.7 percent users report with Strongly Disagree and Disagree.7.2 Expert EvaluationTo evaluate the effectiveness of our design as well as the technique, we interviewed four domain experts (PA, PB, PC, and PD). PA is a leading researcher in urban-computing field, and has published papers at prestigious conferences

and journals. PB is an associate professor in intelligent transportation field, and is active in solving problems facing traffic dispatching and controlling. PC and PD are from the bureau of transportation administration and an intelligent transportation company. They both have expertise in employing and developing real world transportation appli- cations. However, except PA, the domain experts are not familiar with advanced visualization. During the inter- views, we first gave a tutorial to introduce our work and the pipeline of route-zooming process for in-place visualization, and then demonstrate our real system to them to evaluate the effectiveness and usability of our technique. Their feed- back is summarized as follows.   Deformation and cognitive burden. We showed the experts the process of broadening routes and embedding corre- sponding information (i.e., temporal displays for the city maps). The domain experts all agreed that the deformation to the map was acceptable. They found it difficult to notice the distortion to the whole map structure. PA said that “most of the sensible deformation occurs in certain context roads of the map”, and “users most likely pay attention to the roads of interest (i.e., the broadening routes), and they may not notice the deformation to the context roads.” This feedback is consistent with our aim of dispersing the defor- mation to the whole map structure to avoid obvious distor- tion. He further added that he appreciated our effort of ensuring the relative positions and angles among the roads, because it is essential for users to link the structure of origi- nal map and the deformed one. The domain experts all agreed that they did not experience additional cognitive burden or distraction when the road was broadened. PD mentioned that since many frequently used maps like tour- ist maps are also deformed or transformed to varying degrees for overlaying meaningful information, the defor- mation to the map appears not strange to her. However, PB found that the size of blocks between roads could be changed significantly during the road broadening in certain networks. We can address this issue by adding virtual roads (see Section 4.4) before roads are getting too close.   Usability. We presented the participants the two views for information presentation, namely, an embedded view where information is embedded into the broadened roads and a direct view where information is directly overlaid on routes for comparison. All of the domain experts confirmed the usefulness and effectiveness of the route-zooming approach, and they liked the embedded view for informa- tion visualization due to its irreplaceable advantage, i.e., occlusion-free presentation. PB and PC both commented that the embedded view provides additional space for over- laying rich information while the direct view may hinder some critical information, for example, the exact intersection location between context roads and the road of interest. PB indicated that, for both drivers and transportation adminis- trators, the embedded view would have the potential to play a critical role in certain circumstance such as crisis management and security monitoring.   Suggestions. All of the domain experts provided valuable feedback on improving our work. PA, PB and PC all indi- cated that more applications should be explored using the route-zooming technique, for example,  the navigation applications. PB suggested the technique should be able to
be employed in navigation scenarios, such as navigating in reversible lanes or complex overpass bridges. PC also pointed out that “when users are driving to a destination using a navigation software, the technique has the advan- tage of allowing for overlaying various kinds of indication information such as real-time traffic accidents and ongoing road lane construction on the broadened road without occluding the navigation route”. In addition, PD suggested that the technique should be able to support more kinds of maps such as hand-drawn cartoon maps.8 DISCUSSIONSThe experiments demonstrate that our graph-based route- zooming technique has clear advantages over other techni- ques. Compared with seam carving, our technique is more robust and efficient without distorting the context roads. Compared with linear zooming, our technique can highlight important information with faithful and rich spatial context. Our spatio-temporal visualization method based on route- zooming is also more useful and effective than other methods. Compared with linked views, our integrated visu- alization seamlessly embeds various information into mean- ingful spatial context and decreases the high cognitive overhead. Compared with integrated visualization based on simple information overlay, our method supports occlu- sion-free, focus+context visualization and is suitable for simultaneous comparative analysis of multiple roads.   However, our method still has some limitations. First, overlaying temporal displays on roads of unusual shapes may lead to a distortion problem. For example, if we need to embed a temporal display into a curved and irregular route, then we can reshape the display according to the route shape. However, the inner side of the display may be compressed, whereas the outer side may be stretched. To address this issue, we can introduce a constraint into our optimization process to ensure the consistency of the angle of incline for each road segment of the focus route. After the optimization, the curved route is not only broadened but also straightened such  that the temporal  display can  be overlaid without any distortion. Nevertheless, straightening the focus route may also distort the geospatial context, which may mislead users in some circumstances. We plan to further study this problem balance the design trade-off.   Second, it is non-trivial to overlay temporal displays on roads of different lengths. If the temporal displays are sim- ply stretched out to fit the roads, then they will have differ- ent size scales that can affect the subsequent comparative analysis. To address this issue, another constraint can be imposed to lengthen or shorten the roads in the optimiza-tion process. Specifically, for each road e ¼ fu; vg, we canincrease or decrease the distance between nodes u and v. This constraint is particularly useful and effective when the road lengths are similar, because aligning a long road and a short road may lead to a noticeable distortion.   Finally, in some circumstances when a road having an abnormal shape does not allow an appropriate embedding of a temporal display, or when a great number of roads need to be broadened and the deformed map may exceed the screen resolution boundary, we can complement the visuali- zation with other methods like traditional linked views.

9 CONCLUSIONIn this work we present a novel technique called route- zooming to broaden a user selected focus route with the least distortion to the map. Based on the technique, we pro- pose a new visualization solution that allows analysis and presentation of spatial and temporal data as an inseparable whole. Through the direct overlaying of time series visual- izations on broadened roads, we achieve a seamless combi- nation of space and time with no occlusion and minimal distortion. The usability of our system is demonstrated through two method instantiations and two case studies using real-world traffic data. The effectiveness and effi- ciency are proven by a user study compared with a conven- tional linked view design.   There are multiple possible avenues for future work. It would be useful to conduct a user centered experiment to evaluate the usability of different temporal visualizations embedded in the map. We also plan to conduct a systematic and quantitative evaluation on our route-zooming algo- rithm. One possible solution is to measure the difference between the deformed map and the original one by calculat- ing the shifting distance of the each road in the two maps.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThe work is supported by National 973 Program of China (2015CB352503), NSFC (No. 61502416), Zhejiang Provincial NSFC (No. LR14F020002), joint project Data-Driven Intelli- gent Transportation between China and Europe announced by the Ministry of Science and Technology of China, grant HK RGC GRF 618313, and a grant from Microsoft Research Asia. Ronghua Liang is the corresponding author.REFERENCES[1] J. Yuan, Y. Zheng, X. Xie, and G. Sun, “T-drive: Enhancing driving directions with taxi drivers’ intelligence,” IEEE Trans. Knowledge Data Eng., vol. 25, no. 1, pp. 220–232, Jan. 2013.[2] H. Doraiswamy, N. Ferreira, T. Damoulas, J. Freire, and C. T. Silva, “Using topological analysis to support event-guided explo- ration in urban data,” IEEE Trans. Vis. Comput. Graphics, vol. 20, no. 12, pp. 2634–2643, Dec. 2014.[3] C. Tominski, S. Gladisch, U. Kister, R. Dachselt,  and  H. Schumann, “A survey on interactive lenses in visualization,” in Proc. EuroVis State-of-the-Art Rep., 2014, pp. 43–62.[4] Z. Wang, T. Ye, M. Lu, X. Yuan, H. Qu, J. Yuan, and Q. Wu, “Visual exploration of sparse traffi trajectory data,”  IEEE Trans. Vis. Comput. Graphics, vol. 20, no.  12,  pp.  1813–1822, Dec. 2014.[5] M. Q. Wang Baldonado, A. Woodruff, and A. Kuchinsky, “Guidelines for using multiple views in information visual- ization,” in Proc. Working Conf. Adv. Vis. Interfaces, 2000, pp. 110– 119.[6] G. Sun, Y. Liu, W. Wu, R. Liang, and H. Qu, “Embedding tempo- ral display into maps for occlusion-free visualization of spatio- temporal data,” in Proc. IEEE Pacific Vis. Symp., 2014, pp. 185–192.[7]    G. W. Furnas, “Generalized fisheye views,” in Proc. SIGCHI Conf.Human Factors Comput. Syst., 1986, pp. 16–23.[8] R. Kincaid, “SignalLens: focus+context applied to electronic time series,” IEEE Trans. Vis. Comput. Graphics, vol. 16, no. 6, pp. 900– 907, Nov. 2010.[9] P. Bak, M. Schaefer, A. Stoffel, D. Keim, and I. Omer, “Density equalizing distortion of large geographic point sets,” Cartographic Geographic Inform. Sci., vol. 36, no. 3, pp. 237–250, 2009.
[10] T. Munzner, F. Guimbreti、ere, S. Tasiran, L. Zhang, and Y. Zhou, “TreeJuxtaposer: scalable tree comparison using focus+ context with guaranteed visibility,” ACM Trans. Graphics, vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 453–462, 2003.[11] P. McLachlan, T. Munzner, E. Koutsofios, and S. North, “LiveRAC: Interactive visual exploration of system management time-series data,” in Proc. SIGCHI Conf. Human Factors Comput. Syst., 2008, pp. 1483–1492.[12] J. Zhao, F. Chevalier, E. Pietriga, and R. Balakrishnan, “Exploratory analysis of time-series with chronolenses,” IEEE Trans. Vis. Comput. Graphics, vol. 17, no. 12, pp. 2422–2431, Dec. 2011.[13] E. Pietriga, O. Bau, and C. Appert, “Representation-independent in-place magnification with sigma lenses,” IEEE Trans. Vis. Com- put. Graphics, vol. 16, no. 3, pp. 455–467, May 2010.[14] J.-H. Haunert and L. Sering, “Drawing road networks with focus regions,” IEEE Trans. Vis. Comput. Graphics,  vol.  17,  no.  12, pp. 2555–2562, Dec. 2011.[15] S. Avidan and A. Shamir, “Seam carving for content-aware image resizing,” ACM Trans. Graphics, vol. 26, no. 3, pp. 10:1–10:9, 2007.[16] H. Qu, H. Wang, W. Cui, Y. Wu, and M.-Y. Chan, “Focus+context route zooming and information overlay in 3d urban environ- ments,” IEEE Trans. Vis. Comput. Graphics, vol. 15, no. 6, pp. 1547– 1554, Nov. 2009.[17] T. C. van Dijk and J.-H. Haunert, “Interactive focus maps using least-squares optimization,” Int. J. Geographical Inform. Sci., vol. 28, no. 10, pp. 2052–2075, 2014.[18] Y.-S. Wang and W.-Y. Peng, “Interactive metro map editing,” IEEE Trans. Vis. Comput. Graphics, vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 1115–1126, Feb. 2016.[19]  G. Andrienko, N. Andrienko, U. Demsar, D. Dransch, J. Dykes,S. I. Fabrikant, M. Jern, M.-J. Kraak, H. Schumann, and C. Tomin- ski, “Space, time and visual analytics,” Int. J. Geographical Inform. Sci., vol. 24, no. 10, pp. 1577–1600, Oct. 2010.[20] Y. Ivanov, C. Wren, A. Sorokin, and I. Kaur. (2007, Nov.). Visualiz- ing the history of living spaces. IEEE Trans. Vis. Comput. Graphics vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 1153–1160. [Online]. Available: http://dx.doi. org/10.1109/TVCG.2007.70621.[21] G. Andrienko, N. Andrienko, and M. Heurich. (2011, Sep.). An event-based conceptual model for context-aware movement anal- ysis. Int. J. Geographical Inform. Sci. [Online]. (25)9, pp. 1347–1370. Available:     http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13658816.2011.556120.[22] H. Guo, Z. Wang, B. Yu, H. Zhao, and X. Yuan, “TripVista: Triple perspective visual trajectory analytics and its application on microscopic traffic data at a road intersection,” in Proc. IEEE Pacific Visualization Symp., 2011, pp. 163–170.[23] T. Kapler and W. Wright. (2004). Geotime information visualiza- tion. in Proc. IEEE Symp. Inform. Vis., pp. 25–32. [Online]. Avail- able:    http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/INFOVIS.2004.27.[24] C. Tominski, H. Schumann, G. Andrienko, and N. Andrienko, “Stacking-based visualization of trajectory attribute data,” IEEE Trans. Vis. Comput. Graphics, vol. 18, no. 12, pp. 2565–2574, Dec. 2012.[25] H. Liu, Y. Gao, L. Lu, S. Liu, H. Qu, and L. Ni, “Visual analysis of route diversity,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. Vis. Analytics Sci. Technol., Oct. 2011, pp. 171–180.[26] W. Aigner, S. Miksch, H. Schumann, and C. Tominski, Visualiza- tion of Time-Oriented Data. London, U.K.: Springer-Verlag, 2011.[27] T. Crnovrsanin, C. Muelder, C. D. Correa, and K.-L. Ma, “Proximity-based visualization of movement trace data,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. Vis. Analytics Sci. Technol., 2009, pp. 11–18.[28] G. Andrienko and N. Andrienko, “Spatio-temporal aggregation for visual analysis of movements,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. Vis. Analyt- ics Sci. Technol., 2008, pp. 51–58.[29] R. Scheepens, N. Willems, H. van de Wetering, and J. J. van Wijk. (2011). Interactive visualization of multivariate trajectory data with density maps. in Proc. IEEE Pacifi Vis. Symp., pp. 147–154. [Online]. Available: http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm? id=2015551.2015646.[30]  D. Nekrasovski, A. Bodnar, J. McGrenere, F. Guimbreti、ere, andT. Munzner, “An evaluation of pan & zoom and rubber sheet nav- igation with and without an overview,” in Proc. SIGCHI Conf. Human Factors Comput. Syst., 2006, pp. 11–20.

Guodao Sun received the BSc degree in com- puter science and technology and the PhD degree in control science and engineering both from the Zhejiang University of Technology. He is an assistant professor at the College of Informa- tion Engineering, Zhejiang University of Technol- ogy, Hangzhou, China. His main research interests are urban visualization and visual ana- lytics of social media.
Huamin Qu received the BS degree in mathe- matics from Xi’an Jiaotong University, China, and the MS and PhD degrees in computer science from the Stony Brook University. He is a profes- sor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. His main research interests are in visualization and human-com- puter interaction, with focuses on urban informat- ics, social network analysis, e-learning, and text visualization. He is a member of the IEEE.

Ronghua Liang received the PhD degree in computer science from Zhejiang  University in 2003. He was a research fellow at the University of Bedfordshire, United Kingdom, from April 2004 to July 2005 and as a visiting scholar at the University of California, Davis, from March 2010 to March 2011.  He  is  currently  a  professor of computer science and dean of the College of Information Engineering, Zhejiang University of Technology, China. He has published more than 50 papers in leading international journals andconferences including IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engi- neering, IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, IEEE Information Visualization, IJCAI, AAAI. His research interests include visual analytics, computer vision, and medical visualization. He is a member of the IEEE.
Yingcai Wu received the PhD degree in com- puter science from the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST). He is an assistant professor at the State Key Lab of CAD CG, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China. Prior to his current position, he was a researcher at the Internet Graphics Group in Microsoft Research Asia, Beijing, China. His primary research inter- ests lie in visual behavior analytics, visual analyt- ics of social media, visual text analytics, uncertainty-aware visual analytics, and informa-tion visualization. He is a member of the IEEE." For more information on this or any other computing topic, please visit our Digital Library at www.computer.org/publications/dlib.